# Stay the Fuck Away from Udemy for Kubernetes

Just requested a refund for the KCAD and KCA courses on Udemy
recommended on the Kubernetes blog. It is clear to me that most of the
people who write those blog posts for the Kubernetes.io and training
groups have no fucking idea how to use a Linux system to begin with. I
about threw my phone when the pretty unnecessary graphic filled my phone
screen with PyCharm as the recommended editor (only to open a document
immediately after that saying essentially, "oh shit, we are sorry, vim
and nano are all you get on the exam"). Plus they have built this
entirely unnecessary web emulation of the test environment and multiple
choices quizzes for no fucking reason. Seriously, I am so fucking tired
of those claiming to have people's educational and training interests at
heard creating some fucking "emulated environment" whey the real thing
could have been used instead, in this case `minikube` or `kind`. What
the fuck do they think is going to happen? That magically you are going
to retroactively figure out how to use Linux and the terminal *after*
you have received your certification? You have *no fucking business*
going for any of those certifications until you have *mastered* the bash
Linux command line, Bash scripting, and editing with a minimal vim
because that is *all* you get for the exam as well as in most real world
scenarios. Babying people to steal \$30 from for your flashy, shitty
content is a disservice to *everyone*. I know, I sat and listened to
someone who cannot find good people to hire because of this shit that
passes as "professional training." 

I get that everyone has their own way, but in this case the exactly
correct way to learn this stuff is to fire up an *actual* single-node
k82 with `kind` and read the *only* materials that are allowed for you
to use on the exam. The kubernetes.io site and the GitHub source code.
Why the fuck would you commit a bunch of stuff to memory that you can
*never* use on the exam? Memorize every fucking line of the only
available material, then create your own scenarios for the most common
tasks that would requires, make a GitHub repo with your lab in it, and
repeat that until you fingers are numb.
