# Hubris is Fine, If Earned

Someone left a comment recently attacking me saying "[they] do agree [I
am] very aggressive and act like [I am] better than everyone else."
Here's the objective reality. For most of the things I talk about on my
live stream and make YouTube videos about I *am* better than everyone
else on YouTube and Twitch. It's just a fact. Seriously, I could (and
have) cited ways I have been dead wrong and corrected myself over and
over again. That's what makes me superior. The others don't. They
double-down on their dumb-ass positions. No matter how vocal and ranty I
have been about *any* of my positions when I'm introduced to new
information and evidence I *always* change. If there is one thing that
makes me superior, that's it. And I have a record of producing superior
people from my mentoring community, that others who have hired them and
known them have gone out of their way to let me know. It does increase
my confidence in my methods and tech decisions, but again, the biggest
being not to become too dogmatic.

What pisses me off is this idea that being 'aggressive' and 'better than
everyone else' is somehow a bad thing. It's just fucking not. In this
world of absolute idiocy aggressive rhetoric, unfortunately, is the only
thing that gets through to *most* people. Am I this 'abrasive' (a term
used to refer to Linus Torvalds) in person? Do I act this way at
work on conference calls? No. Or at least, not nearly as much. But, in
my personal and private live, on the topic of technology direction and
helping people get employable skills, hell yeah, I'm fucking aggressive.
That's the type of person that has helped me in the past. That's the
type of person I want to be. And I definitely actively seek to produce
people who will be 'aggressive' in their advocacy for things that morons
can't even understand. Does that make me a bad person? Fuck no.

    #rant #hubris
