# Managed to over train myself, sick but can't sleep

I had so much fun on Sunday dancing like a crazy person for 5 hours and 30 minutes (<https://www.strava.com/activities/9459509009>) but I really paid for it. I cannot walk, lol. My calves are locked up in perpetual cramps even though none of the rest of my body has any problems at all. I suppose it is because of the type of dancing I was doing that had a lot of jumping around. In fact, dancing *really* hits your calves more than I realized. Doing it five nights a week must have been great conditioning back in the day. But with nothing but cycling as my main exercise it's clear to see I need to mix things up more to hit all areas of my body if I want to keep maintaining muscle everywhere. Peter Attia's Outline book has be terrified of getting old without having built up all areas of muscular fitness, and it the inevitable decline starts for most people at 50. Even with a full maintenance training routine pretty much everyone, all things being equal, continues to decline anyway. Not me damnit.

One of the harder things about working with a younger team is helping them understand that I cannot work the way they do. I get just as much done overall but it takes me longer to recover between. And when I do add value that value tends to be slightly higher than the total value of a lot of stuff at a lower level. That's not a competition, it's just an explanation of how I have to get work done at my age. (God, I hate having to say "at my age", I still feel 18 inside.)
