# Glad New 'Software and Game Programming' on Twitch

I fucking hate most of the channels that were in *Science and
Technology* before the recent addition of the 'Software and Game
Programming' related to shitty game development. Don't misunderstand, I
have nothing against the *people* there (except ThePrimeagean who is a
fucking uninformed, script-kiddy dick).

Thank GOD are all these would-be game-devs-for-life are leaving en mass
leaving Science and Technology practically empty except for people
actually doing science and tech stuff (and the ducks and AI and
earthquakes, of course). 

Sorry, not sorry.

Software development is *not* engineering, it is a part of engineering,
but not a category unto itself. The shitty term 'software engineer' was
invented by a programmer at NASA who wanted to feel more important in
their role and unfortunately the title stuck. You can't even use the
term 'engineer' legally in your title in Canada because you have
to prove you have experience and education that is *actual* engineering. 

I'm just giddy that all the 'full-stack' people are all grouped in one
place to avoid. So long you shitty channels. Have fun doing whatever it
is that you do. You won't be missed, not by me anyway.

The intelligence quotient of Science and Technology just went through
the roof, even with the ducks pulling it down, just a bit. The
percentage of security, cloud native, computer scientists, and
electronic engineers has almost immediately increased. Today is a great
day to be an engineer who streams. Thank you Twitch. Where do I send the
bribe?

And to those who say this 'makes it harder to find good stuff' I say,
"What the fuck are you talking about?" People find *you* not the
category. If you are worried about not being found by people because of
the random ducks, earthquakes, and AI experiments then you have bigger
community problems to deal with, creating a new category isn't gonna fix
your shitty stream content and dwindling community. After all, I don't
give a fuck how big my community is. Those who need it *will* and *have*
found it. Having a smaller community is *better* if you don't have
shitty aspirations to support yourself from your stream. Get a real
fucking job and use it to provide financial backing and content for your
stream. That's what people want (in this category). Then stream wherever
and whenever it makes sense. Your stream should really not be your job.
If it is, well, nothing is going to help you, except maybe a social
media marketing degree (like DistroTube has).

Don't believe me? Go ask Dennis how he maintains one of the top Twitch
streams in Science and Technology history while getting banned
every other month. Do you think he gives one flying fuck about the new
category? HELL no. His community follows *him* not the fucking category.
Dennis is the epitome of a great streamer and community builder and he
proves it every fucking day. (Bonus fucks inspired by him.) I aspire to
be like Dennis (if only my liver could put up with it). Those fucking
Canadians, they have strong fucking livers, and wolves (\*shivers\*).

    #twitch #rant #science #fullstack #news
