# No, Let's Not "Go Further"

TL;DR: Don't buy Alex's book, get Go 101 for free. It's far more
complete and better maintained.

I have to apologize to Alex in advance. I don't know this person and
love the fact that they want to help the world, just not for
\$60-fucking-dollars for a Go book that covers 1.17 from a person who
willingly uses the fucking idiotic title "Full Stack Engineer." I don't
need to read anything in the book other than the "covers 1.17" to know
right away it will never make my awesome-go list. Here's the brief
reasons why:

* *Nothing* but Go 1.18 matters (don't learn anything else)
* I never list anything that costs money
* The table of contents is full with web shit (mostly)

And to those who say that I'm being unreasonable wanting a world where
people in the Philippines (or wherever) who cannot afford
60-fucking-dollars to receive learning that they need more than anyone
else in the world, I say fuck off. You can choose to live in a world
where people make money hording knowledge from others, or you can choose
to make your living from a company that will pay you to produce that
knowledge for the world for free, or you can get a job that does pay
(probably a good idea with tech stuff so you have something to draw from
for your material) and ask those who can pay to pay what they can. I
know it is next to impossible for more "tech writers" to make a living
without charging crazy-ass prices, but that is exactly what the fucking
academic extortionists to as well forcing people to pay more than a
hundred dollars for their shitty text books written only to sell to
other academics that are completely unintelligible and useless to
neophytes learning the material. I don't want to live in that world, and
it's perfectly within my rights to *not* suggest shit from people who
want to.

* [20220413091223](/20220413091223/) Intellectual Property is Bad for Humanity
* [20220415110827](/20220415110827/) Go 101 Looks Pretty Damn Good, and Free

    #rants #writing #authors #golang
