# Intellectual Property is Bad for Humanity

I used to chafe at Stallman's suggestion that if a school child brings a
program they coded to school that they are morally obligated to give a
copy of that program to everyone in the school, that somehow that is the
right thing to do.

Stallman was right. He just presented it the wrong way.

Last night I watched the Cyberwar movie on HBO (not to be confused with
the amazing series from Ben Makuch on Vice, and winner of the World
Press Freedom Award for going to prison before giving up his sources).
While watching how China has meticulously stolen most of their greatest
inventions --- and openly proclaimed their strategy to their forces and
the world --- that those who still believe ideas are "property" will be
destroyed in the present and future of every endeavor.

Ownership of things is what keeps the current form of the human species
alive. Attempts to take away ownership have all failed miserably. Humans
crave ownership. Watch the upper-echelons of society in the art world,
or the NFT craze, or TF2 hats, and you cannot deny it isn't even about
the money. It's about having something, possessing it, hopefully in a
way that others cannot.

But none of that has to do with the fact that China's premier fighting
jets are almost exact copies of America's, because they stole the plans
and everyone knows it. China has no shits to give. "That which we cannot
create, we will obtain", is the essence of that call to modern warfare
from the Chinese leadership. That scene from Mr. Robot comes to mind,
"We look forward to stealing your intellectual property for many years
to come", says WhiteRose directly to her new business partners in
Chinese so they don't understand. That's China. Americans are so fucking
full of themselves and how-can-they-even-feed-themselves stupid --- like
Trump, and Sheldon Adelson, and Clapper --- that China and North Korea
just hack and steal our IP with wild abandon while smiling and shaking
our hands.

How do you fight against an enemy who openly steals all your best ideas,
whether it be a nation state, or that idiot down the hall taking credit
for your work? Here's how: you beat them to "market" and make sure
everyone knows you did.

This is a new realization for me.

There's a joke in Saturday Night Live where one non-contributing zero
says, "Well, it's like Albert Einstein said, it's about 1% inspiration
and 99% *getting your name out there*." (I showed that video once on
Twitch to my community and most of them didn't laugh.) That statement is
just so fucking true, despite the comedic value. You *do* have
to market your idea or it will never get adopted, or worse, someone who
is smart enough to realize how good the idea is will act on it and get
the public record before you that they created it (reminds me of the
invention of the transistor, or electricity, or the PC).

We can learn a lot from the Mother of all Demos. Engelbart did almost
no actual engineering on any of the stuff he demoed. He wasn't even an
engineer. Sound familiar? Jobs was the same. Woz *invented* the PC we
have today, but it was Jobs who got the credit. Jobs *stole* (and admits
it) the idea from Palo Alto engineers at Xerox who (few people
know) stole the idea from Engelbart. But we can trace that IP to
Engelbart even though --- yes even in America --- there was rampant IP
theft all over the place.

No one cares who owns something. We just want to enjoy the fruits of
these ideas and the unsung engineers who made it happen, like Dennis
Ritchie, the creator C language. Trillions of lines of C run our entire
fucking world, every device, including Apple, PC, phones, mother-fucking
traffic lights, but Dennis' death the same week as Jobs went virtually
unnoticed. Dennis didn't market. Dennis produced. He changed the world
in ways so substantial we can hardly measure it today. Jobs? Meh.

All this demonstrates that ideas cannot be owned. In fact, after
extensive research to protect my BattleForge game idea (which EA
actually straight-up stole from a post I made in a newsgroup) I realized
that the law is that you cannot protect a game *idea* at all. That's why
we have everyone who wants making Chess boards, and Connect-Four, and
Tik-Tak-fucking-Toe. We got that one right. You cannot patent a game
idea, period. You can copyright the specific copy of the rules and your
logo, but you cannot protect your game in any other way. Your only
option is to market the shit out of it and make sure everyone knows
about it --- and that *you* made it (if you care).

Software is no different than games, other than the specific code you
write to realize that idea. You can try and patent everything like IBM
or Amazon (who actually patented one-click purchases, which is fucking
idiotic). Or you can create something based on your idea and beat
everyone to market.

But here's the thing. China doesn't give a shit about our patents and
copyrights. If you make it public (or even if you don't) they own it as
soon as they have it. You just cannot fight that shit. All we are doing
by making it illegal and waste time, money, and energy to sue the fuck
out of each other is expend all our resources on superfluous shit while
China, Russia, and others shake their head watching the next super
fighter jet roll off the assembly line. The only thing we are doing is
shooting ourselves in the foot by playing the greedy "intellectual
property" litigation game. Even if you are a bloated, racist, Vegas
billionaire you have to appreciate this objective reality. You are
*killing* yourself by fighting over who owns what while people who don't
give a shit are just acting.

This goes for books too.

By the way, how much do you charge for your "property"? Do you force the
entire world to pay American prices? What if you gave your book away for
free and asked those who can pay to pay what they find is fair, for the
portion of the book and knowledge that they found useful. People in
countries with tougher economies could pay their "widow's mite" for your
knowledge that takes them out of poverty (and then they send you a huge
email of gratitude for it) while other affluent SV people can sponsor
you for \$60 a month.

Wherever you are philosophically, this means that the very nature of
"intellectual property" is the problem. You just cannot "own" ideas and
trying to do so hurts *you* more than it helps. Plus it pulls down your
entire society and ultimately humanity. The more ideas get out there,
the more people can riff off them and make them better.

Then there is the problem of people trying to horde or "own" their ideas
so that others they disagree with cannot have them. Nuclear power comes
to mind. Lately, we seen a ton of idiots try to attack Russia by
disabling their "open source" software and crippling thousands, most of
whom aren't even in Russia. That's because these fucking morons don't
understand that once an idea has escaped into the public, no amount of
legal protections will keep it from being used.

I've had to face this myself. I'm making Bonzai, which I believe can be
a hugely transformative approach to command line user interactions. I
thought to myself, "Russians will make rats nests and malware using my
tool. It's perfect for it, I mean, really fucking perfect." Do I somehow
try to keep hackers from creating such tools? Or do I lament, "I am
become death, the destroyer of worlds" like Oppenheimer (okay, my stuff
is *nearly* as powerful, but you get the idea).

No, I should dedicate my time to helping those I agree understand and
adopt the idea as fast as possible. To help the good guys win the battle
of time. That is exactly what Oppenheimer did. The World War II win was
about time to market. The allies beat the Axis with the Enigma, Eniac,
and A-bomb. The point is, it's not about ownership, it's about action.
Those who act first, win.

By removing the silly laws and costly squabbles about IP ownership, we
light a fire under everyone's ass with a good idea to *do* something
with that idea before their competition.

Time to go, my ass is on fire.

Don't get mad, get busy.

* Iran hacked an American casino, U.S. intel director says  
  https://money.cnn.com/2015/02/27/technology/security/iran-hack-casino/index.html

* You Can Do Anything - Saturday Night Live - YouTube  
  https://www.youtube.com/supported_browsers?next_url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.youtube.com%2Fwatch%3Fv%3DpRz2icpq5Sc

* The Mother of All Demos - YouTube  
  https://www.youtube.com/supported_browsers?next_url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.youtube.com%2Fwatch%3Fv%3DJQ8ZiT1sn88
