# Focus on First MVP, Rapid Prototyping in Bash FTW

I don't think I can overstate how important learning to be *really* fast
at bash coding. There is no language that objectively can be written in
more quickly. It is a highly contextual language, a dense language,
which makes it ugly and messy, but you can code faster in bash that just
about anything else (except maybe Perl, which is why Perl almost
displaced bash). Plus there's a good chance learning bash well will
provide added value for *all* your terminal computing tasks.

I'm just coming off a marathon coding session having implemented stuff
that would have taken me at least four times as long to put together in
Python, Perl, or Go even when I was at my peek in those languages. Stuff
that needs `curl` and `jq` and data transformation is particularly easy
to do in bash and gives you a solid feeling that you are actually using
the protocols instead of burying them under layers of library
abstraction.

Slow, inexperienced, people will continue to throw shit at bash for how
ugly it is. It is ugly. But I love ugly in this sense. Ugly means
*fast*. While they are still trying to figure stuff out I'll be over
here finishing MVPs that I can use and pitch for ideas for larger
projects. That is what rapid applications development is all about. It's
what JavaScript script kiddies crave as well. It's the reason that
TypeScript is a tumorous growth full of cancer cells that don't really
know what they are suppose to be. Bash *knows* it's king. It knows you
have to use it to use Linux. It knows people who treat it nicely will
get the absolute most out of their computers for the least amount of
effort. This is the way.
