# So glad I got the Wahoo KICKR Bike instead of Specialized Aethos

I went ahead and modeled the Aethos dimensions and gearing on my adjustable KICKR Bike and oh-my-god am I glad I didn't buy the Aethos. The infinite adjustability of the KICKR Bike (since it is a smart trainer designed for many people) is worth every fucking dollar. Say you want to do a long climb and want a more relaxed/touring position. No problem, you can even make the adjustments without coming out of the clips if you are careful. Say you have a road race coming up in another state for which you are going to rent a bike with an aggresive/aero geometry. No problem, you can make those adjustments as well.

Perhaps the biggest eye opener was doing EPIC KOM with its category 4 15% climbs and realizing that with 36-30 simulated gearing (matching the Aethos) that my weight required 360 watts just to spin at 50 rpm with max trainer difficulty (ultimate realism). Even with my new 242 FTP that is brutal. I would still be able to climb Mt. Mitchel's maxium 8% grades no problem but anything over 10% would be a fucking wall. In the saddle I barely eeked out 30 rpm.

Had I paid *double* what I paid for the KICKR Bike for the Aethos and suffering through the realization that it's non-adjustable default aggresive geometry and gearing would make riding inside and outside absolutely miserable would have been a *fucking monsterous* mistake. And that isn't even taking into account all the hassles of riding outdoors on a bike that cost more than many people's first car. I am so glad I kept my wonderful, tanky, cozy Keshy for outdoor rides. She's a beast, but she's the *right* beast for enjoying outdoor training *anywhere*. After all, that's what it is, outdoor training, not racing. Strava segments are so dominated by elites and cheaters that chasing KOMs is downright stupid. Bettr to monitor your own fitness gains and *enjoy the fucking ride.* Can't enjoy the ride if you are supertucking, grinding, and looking up through stinging sweat the whole time. That's not fun, never has been. It's the very reason mountain biking became so popular in the first place, and not gravel biking. The perfect combination is the ultimate virtual bike indoors, and the cheapest, most robust, packable, and adaptable adventure bike outdoors. That's *exactly* what I've managed to achieve and I'm so fucking happy.

And the best part? I can do two-a-day workouts including one at 10pm without fearing for my life and fighting with the weather. If the weather and traffic are good I can do the first outside. Then, I can push at home. Or go easy and watch an entire movie. This setup makes the best use of time cannot be overstated. Hell, I've Zwift biked during more than 10 hours of work meetings at this point. This KICKR Bike is worth every fucking dollar I paid. I'm so happy. It's quite definitely the coolest toy I have *ever* owned in my entire life.
