# Go Where the Noobs Are: Dev.to

If I have any hope of fighting the tide of cluelessness that keeps
carrying great beginning technologists out to sea, where they drown in
the idiotic, swirling trends of pop tech culture, then I suppose I have
to engage more with these people where they are. So I created (another)
Dev.to account today. I had to delete it before because I was so
*fucking* annoyed with the every-one-gets-a-trophy mindset of that
particular forum. No one there wants to hear reality, no matter how
nicely I put it. It's one of the main reasons I created SKILSTAK and
started writing and streaming. I might be "abrasive" and "unhinged" but
I'm usually fucking right, and when I'm not I learn to be right and say
so. I've stopped counting how many times I've been significantly right
on *major* things and I have to help others learn to be right by doing
their own research and staying prescient. I've been wrong plenty of
times as well, but much less, and with much less impact on myself and
those I've worked for.

Anyway, every time I write anything anywhere, I'll be writing it here
first, the way I want to say it, without and the saccharin fluff certain
people seems to mandate to participate. Disagreement is not toxicity,
people. Some facts are incontrovertible no matter how much you might
think they are someone's "opinion, man." I'll be sure to tag stuff
according to where it was posted. If people want the unfiltered me, they
know where to find me. This ought to be interesting.

    #rants #devto
