# Wearing headphones can actually make you safer while cycling

Yesterday I was reminded how much constant wind and traffic noise annoys me when cycling on the road so I stopped and purchased ear plugs that block out 80% of the sound. It was glorious. I could still hear all the important stuff---strangely even some things I could *not* hear without them that came through vibrations. I immediately felt calmer and safer, more able to focus on what was happening all around me. My bike radar proved to be the perfect pairing because I could visually see that something was far in the distance that I would have never even picked up by sound until it was almost on top of me before without headphones. Like a sprinter at the end of a monument race, I would confirm and look behind me as a habit. I felt prepared to adapt and react to any sort of condition that might require immediate action---even more than I would with the distraction of panic inducing loud and constant traffic and wind noise. In short, I was reminded of all the reasons I used to wear headphones in my 20s and 30s when I commuted daily. For many years I have had to defend my decision to mostly non-cyclists. Some towns actually have unscientifically determined laws that require no headphones for cyclists making them even more unsafe. But, now I have the scientific proof that I was right all along.

Recently on GCN they aired a segment talking about this taboo topic. Several of the previously pro presenters said they would regularly listen to music on the bike, but take out the headphones in busy sections, etc. Then they shared a very scientific study that confirms cyclists with headphones in urban areas are "no less safe" than those without suggesting that the increase in focus is the reason.

* Cycling's Sensory Strategies: How Cyclists Mediate their Exposure to the Urban Environment: Mobilities: Vol 9, No 2  
  <https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/17450101.2013.796772>

So time to get those better headphones I've been wanting. I don't always like music, but occasionally it makes for a brilliant background for the visual masterpiece unfolding before me on any number of brilliant, beautiful roads, or, the extra power to dig into that hill interval.
