# Education, Practical Over Theoretical

Universities focus mostly on theoretical knowledge without any practical
application of that knowledge. Many would argue that the *primary*
purpose of college isn't even to get you a job, but to develop you as a
person. Hence, the huge focus on Liberal Arts. This focus runs so deeply
in the academic world that for a long time (and still somewhat today)
calling some "practical" has been a slur in the academic world.
Practical physicists are people "who play with toys" as opposed to the
chalk-dust inhaling theoretical physicists. (By the way, this
distinction is well illustrated in the documentary "Particle Fever.")

If you think about for a moment there's really only one conclusion to
make:

That's fucked up.

Where are people supposed to learn the skills that will keep them and
their families alive if it isn't at the school where they have spent
hundreds of thousands of dollars and hours learning?

The answer to that question is nebulous at best. Sir Ken Robinson
suggests that the problem stems from the fact that the entire
modern educational system was designed by academics in order to create
more academics. They have managed to sway social opinion against
mentorship and "trade" schools where practical skills, knowledge, and
ability are learned.

When people start to ask, "How am I going to get a job" near the end of
their years at college, most colleges just give that lip-service or send
them to the "placement" advisors. I remember doing that and coming up
completely empty. They focused mostly on creating connections with
alumni and guilting them into offering jobs to theoretically trained new
graduates. But, these graduates don't really deserve these high-skilled
jobs because they just don't qualify. In some cases, unqualified people
get the job because of their connections and school, which is even
worse.

The solution has to be a shift toward *practical* skills education
within these organizations beginning well before college. Younger grade
school students are encouraged to explore, play, and experiment, but
eventually this is changed to "do what I say" or what the book says to
do without understanding why that applies to the world. By the time
these kids get to college playing around with something to learn about
it is frowned upon. The field trips end, as does the laughter and
learning. If we are to help turn this around we have to embrace very
messy experimentation.

I believe the best way I can contribute to this is to capture the list
of things people ought to learn for a given occupation and then provide
a way for members of learning communities to share their own exploration
and discovery. I used to call this "delivery-driven education" but I've
called it other things before. Lately, putting these requirements in the
language of job listings as *open credentials* is my focus with the Open
Credential Merit System. It is designed after the most successful
practical learning program I've experienced: the merit badge system of
the Boy Scouts of America. I'm really glad I was exposed to it even if I
have a lot of problems with that organization for other reasons.

There is one community that we can turn to for proof that practical
exploration and discovery works phenomenally well: hackers. The very act
of hacking is 100% practical. It is about failure and discovery. It's
about trying this and that. And then it's about applying that hack for
whatever purpose. Those that excel in the hacking world have embraced
the RWX method of reading, researching, writing about it, and exploring,
experimenting, and ultimately exposing their discoveries. Perhaps this
is the reason the hacker mentality is so despised by the academic world.
When a hacker learns theory it is to explain *why* they were able to
hack something in the most minimal, practical terms.

Related:

* Out of Their Minds, Sir Ken Robinson
* Particle Fever Documentary
* [20211005225329](/20211005225329/) Open Credential Merit System (OCMS) for Learning
* [20211006152449](/20211006152449/) OCMS Credentials (Badges) Specification

