# Insane Amount of Hand-Holding for Most to Learn

I'm sitting here listening to a work training thing where people from
the training department at the corporate level --- specifically about
Google Cloud Platform --- and all I can think about is how much fucking
hand-holding everyone needs to figure out even the most insignificant
things, navigation of the pages, all the different canned learning from
the different learning sites, and how to reach out to different
community chat rooms and forums and shit. No one feels like they can
just start playing with it and learning it on their own. They have to
have a system, or a book, or an outline, or a mentor.

How the hell do these people survive in the tech world?!

Seriously, this is more of a commentary on the natural of oppressive
educational practices that create people 100% dependent on the system
because the people that created and run the system *want* them to be
dependent on them. Their livelihood depends on it. This is Friere's
basic premise in *Pedagogy of the Oppressed*.

People seem incapable of expending energy to organize and own their own
learning so they throw their hands up and say, "Well, not a Udemy on it
so I just can't learn it" or whatever.

Plus people spend so much fucking time creating learning platforms
rather than just getting solid, edited, good data out there that would
go into the platform. In fact, you'll get updates about the platform,
but the content is ancient and unusable. The energy is going into making
the platform better, not the content, which is completely ass-backwards.
People being paid for "training" are "curating" the sources of the
knowledge, which I understand, but imagine a world where everyone is
taught from the moment they can walk how to figure out and filter
everything themselves, where the scientific method is a way of life, not
just for scientists, where critical thinking and respectable dissension
is rewarded instead of trends and dogma.
