# Going Back to OBS for BelaBox

Been really loving BelaBox setup lately and working hard to get it
working. It really needs OBS though. In fact, OBS is far more open to
customization than StreamLabs. But StreamLabs just worked for so many
things that I needed immediately:

* Clip saves and publishing
* Pinned messages
* Video queueing
* CloudBot

That first one is so amazing it is hard to put into words. You just tap
a key and save the last 20 seconds. Then later, you click two buttons
and they are all stitched together and uploaded automatically to
YouTube. That level of time savings is worth every dime I've spent on it
by itself.

But here's the thing. I don't use these things anymore and probably
never will.

**I don't use clips anymore** because I'm mostly muted and coworking. The
only time I'm not is when I'm doing a 5-hour Boost session and *all* of
it needs to get published to YouTube as-is (or with minimal editing), or
when I'm IRL streaming, in which case there's nothing to clip unless
others do it or I do when I get back home.

*Pinned messages can be done in OBS ways* that don't require StreamLabs.
If there isn't already a plugin out there, I'm sure I can find one.
Besides, I'd rather manage all of that from the command line and "grep"
through the commands and highlight them *all* at the same time. This is
something I can do once my `mim live` tool is working down the road.

**Video queuing is too problematic to get your community to use and
usually I don't use it anyway** because I have other shit to do than
babysit a list of song requests. When I am drunk and screwing around
with the stream, they can just post the URLs and I can pull them out of
the chat from the command line much easier.

**CloudBot is going to be replaced.** I'm already actively seeking to
replace CloudBot with my own that maintains a database of local info
commands and eventually has ML-driven AI answering certain chat messages
automatically like a *true* bot should. That will free me to do other
shit that needs doing instead of babysitting all the info commands.

So there it is. All the reasons I don't need StreamLabs anymore. I
suspect that using Windows will make OBS just that much better as well
since so much more is designed to run on Windows instead of Linux. Most
importantly, the noalbs plugin that changes scenes when signal is lost
is really important.

    #irl #streaming #streamlabs #obs #twitch
