# Migrating `zet` to `mim`

I'm really conflicted at the moment having put so much time (and
personal finances) into the Knowledge Exchange Grid and Mim Works only
to discover that a modern take on Zettelkasten — that includes video
“casts” — covers *almost* all my needs. But, I've decided. I'm moving
all my `zet` stuff to `mim`. People can maintain their own names of
their forks.

I've been practicing my take on Zettelkasten enough to know that I will
be significantly diverging from (building upon) the original idea in a
way that leverages modern search-centric approaches to knowledge over
cognitive overhead constraints that satisfied the same need in Luhmann's
time. 

At the end of the day, it's about capturing knowledge, searching it in
any number of ways, and creating compositions from that knowledge in the
form of mind-maps and outlines. Zettelkasten brought composability and
(what I call) finite knowledge nodes in the form of "zettels" but as
great as that term is, it has limitations to what it can convey. For
example, it does not take into account the entire `data.yaml` aspect,
which is a substantial part of structured knowledge management that the
`zet` tool has no clue about currently.

From the marketing point of view, "Mim" and "Mim Works" have a more
unique brand quality that would be more searchable. We can make sure to
put plenty of references to zettelkasten and Niklas Luhmann in the main
landing web pages to ensure hits that cross-clicks. 

The `mim` word is no more difficult to type than `zet`, allows the `m`
shortcut, and doesn't conflict with `k` (`kubectl`) muscle memory like
`keg` and `kn` would.

This means I need to stop using the Zettelkasten terminology and go back
to the original KEG terms such as "knowledge node" instead of "zettel"
(slip) with all the positive connotations that provokes.
