# Build Community, Not Subscribers

Just ranted a bit about the new Twitch category and in the process
really called out those who chase the popular crowd of
like-and-subscribers. I was making the point that it is more about
building a *true* community where you happen to be the face on the
stream or video, but it's the members helping each other out that really
lasts, well beyond you.

Not 10 minutes after I concluded that huge, politically incorrect rant,
I got another \$20 GitHub sponsor. I had to shake my head, because one
*true* sponsor who really believes in what you are doing is worth
something like 20 different Twitch subscribers, or close to 10,000 subs
on YouTube. The objective truth is that if you are true to your
personality and content, if you *sincerely* wish to promote and build
your community, to raise them all up, and you along with them, that the
money *will* come, if it is even needed.

The really great thing about supporting myself with a full-time job is
not only that I have better background about the stuff I'm presenting on
my limited stream and video time, but also that I don't *need* the money
so I can be sincere and put that money to good work building the stream
and community itself. I use that money to upgrade equipment and improve
my streaming and writing processes, for everyone. That's what the spirit
of FOSS is all about. It's the new 'sharing economy' that will one day
dominate and replace the traditional economy we are in right now. I'm
feeling particularly hopeful today about the future of humanity. Time to
watch some Mr. Robot and break down that unhealthy optimism. ;)

And thank you GitHub sponsors for what you do, even if at least one of
you is probably going to make a kajillion dollars building my FOSS
software into a start-up at some point. More power to you!
