# MUDL Pedagogy + 3D Graphics

Once upon a time I created QuestAssess (which I intend on branding as
MimWorks QuestAssess™) a rudimentary tool to enable games to be created
in Second Life and OpenSim to create immersive learning 3D environments
that had a learning objective. Different criteria could be met and
detected by QuestAssess sensors placed throughout the sim that would
report up to a central web site where progress and activity could be
tracked in a normal way familiar to any educator, even exported to
spreadsheets. Imagine walking around a historically accurate sim of any
moment in history and being able to assign this as homework. In this
way, people would find the educational content more palatable while
providing solid insight into what learning was actually happening.

I regret never having released QuestAssess. It is still something I may
one day approach. The computing resources are simply not there for most
to implement it.

However, the concept of creating an independent QuestAssess API that
would allow embedding assessor nodes *anywhere*, be in in a 3D sim, or a
web page, or container-zed learning lab, still has merit. I didn't know
it at the time, but I was inventing the Kubernetes of learning. I want
orchestrate multiple independent learning activities and resources into
a single manageable system for which anyone could create resources.

I still want to do this. In fact, my work on the Beginner Boost,
combined with my anticipated gamified work on the new SKILSTAK site,
will fall within this nicely as the first example of what I mean so that
I can demonstrate it to others. While writing MUDL rooms I realized that
I need a way for people to coordinate their progress and see that they
are in the same room. This lead to the realization that the very system
of progress tracking I envisioned for QuestAssess meets the needs of
MUDL coordination perfectly.

So, rather than focus on any sort of progress tracking and mapping at
the moment, I'll hold off and use the concept of MUDL rooms, with
different entrances and exits, mostly in a rooted-node (skills) tree,
until I get a few more rooms finished and get the feel for navigating it
as is. Then, when it comes time to start mapping and visualizing how all
the content ties together, and later add the ability for learners to see
what they have covered, I'll put all that work under the QuestAssess
umbrella. This can include all the concepts of learning expiration and
renewal times that I've always included in other designs. The big
breakthrough is that the finite unit of the MUDL is the room concept.
Each room will have different properties including knowledge expiration.
The result will be a fucking beautiful visual of everything a person has
learned along the way.

Even better will be the connection of different MUDLs to each other.
Entry points into other MUDLs can be added and if all of them using the
MimWorks QuestAssess™ standard will be able to combine their progress
status and visualizations. The standard and minimal tools will always be
free. But the organizational version (schools and such) will be much
more extensive and be priced accordingly.

Now that's how you shave a yak.

    #ideas #mudl #edtech #pedagogy #gamification
