# Does Linux Beginner Boost Include mDNS?

I am really conflicted at the point to cut-off for the *Linux Beginner
Boost*. This year we have been driven by getting users off the ground
and becoming "shell natives", which only requires Docker Desktop (at the
end of the day). In every previous year we've started with with
installing Linux on hardware or connecting with `ssh` into a system
that already had Linux on it (which was by far the most effective way to
get learning). So far using Docker Desktop seems to have been very
successful and certainly models the skills required for any of several
certifications related to cloud-native and security careers, but we
still aren't covering some of the basics of infrastructure and
engineering that I used to cover in person at SkilStak, specifically we
haven't been crimping Cat-5/6 cables, or setting up RAID5 arrays, or
hacking Raspberry Pis into pirate radio channels. Hell, we haven't even
been installing Linux onto old hardware. I had eleven year olds
upgrading their old laptop hard drives and tearing them apart. None of
that is happening in the Boost right now. This leaves me asking simple
questions like, "Do we even cover the `avahi` daemon and mDNS?" That's
kind of silly considering this was something we covered the first month
before. I'm not even sure the name *Linux Beginner Boost* applies. In
fact, I'm sure it doesn't. *Shell Native Beginner Boost* would be
better, but then it really should include at least a minimal amount of
PowerShell and old school Windows `cmd.exe`. Maybe, *Linux Terminal Boost*?

But where does everything else go? When do people learn that stuff? How
do I help them learn it without a maker lab like before? Do I expand the
lab and live stream to include video of the lab? Do I leave it up to
other people to cover that stuff? After all, many already cover it on
YouTube. I think that is the thing to do. There are less than a handful
of good YouTubers who cover Linux Terminal topics. I'll just focus on
that and on programming boosts and on the SkilStak.io tech adventure
interactive learning challenges. That's plenty. I've been frustrated
lately by the sheer volume of stuff out there that people have to learn,
and being able to focus in on the most important stuff --- especially
amidst all the absolute shit people produced by people with more
marketing focus and flash. The only way I can counter their complete and
utter bullshit is to focus on the *right* stuff, stuff that that will
get people certifications and jobs or both, and then, when absolutely
necessary I can directly attack the bullshit and back it up with good
content to redirect their attention. This has really worked in the past.
It just means that I have to let go of my longing to take people from
hardware into software and beyond. Their hardware learning will simply
have to come from someplace else for now. And frankly, the Windows
preview of the latest WSL2 is proving more every month that most people
will *never* install Linux on hardware, but they *will* need really
amazing Linux terminal skills. So no mDNS, for now, no hardware in the
plan. I won't even be making videos about how to make USB sticks to
install Linux. I only have so much time and energy, so the Linux
terminal and coding are my focus. I just realized by this same logic I
really need to shave a lot off my programming training plans as well.
