# Ramping Up for The Attack

I blame listening to YouTubers, Twitch, and Podcasts recently on my new
smart phone while walking. I just cannot fucking put aside the absolute
idiocy that is being spewed by people with 10s of thousands of
subscribers. This is not a fucking popularity contest, it's a war on
idiotic thinking, false information, and uninformed conclusions and
recommendations. So many people are willing to give you their opinions,
but haven't even worked a fucking day in the IT enterprise in any
capacity. All the people gainfully employed doing *real* IT work are not
putting together videos and podcasts. If you are lucky, one might sit
down to be interviewed.

I've sacrificed almost ever hour of my weekly free time to fighting this
fight. I make a great salary from a fortune 100 company and am in the
thick of cloud-native and infrastructure engineering and development
specifically supporting machine learning applications. I love my job,
but more importantly, I love that I can share what I learn and do every
day (and what others in the industry do) in order to bring *real*
information and skills to those that I can. I'm an arrogant bastard for
sure, but I fucking promise, I'm on our side. I have a great job, I
don't fucking need the money or to shill and alter opinions or pick
fights and troll just to get views. When I do it, it is because I
genuinely believe the focus of my attack is *bad* for most people.

I've already lost great associations on the Internet over this and had
aspersions thrown at me. I don't give a fuck. Imma channel Linus and
Aaron and do what I have to do, even if it makes me the most unpopular
streamer/youtuber in all of tech.
