# LMAO at This Meme of an Anti-Go Blog Post

https://lesbianchemicalplant.tumblr.com/post/693763317267857408/go-is-a-bad-programming-language

You can determine everything you need to know about the authority and
experience of the person ranting against the defacto language of the
cloud-native industry by the domain all by itself, and, you guessed it,
it's a Rust moron making the claims. The author clearly wouldn't even
know who Ken Thompson and Rob Pike even are, let alone have any actual
sense when it comes to enterprise software language design.

Okay, and this idiotic claim:

> Unused imports are a compile-time error (so incredibly stupid and
> frustrating).

Nothing says, "I've never coding anything significant in my entire life"
than actually complaining about Go stopping you from writing shitty code
that will level decades of cruft and confusion to follow because you
were too bothered to be reminded not to do dumb shit like use variables
from packages you've never imported or leave behind imports that are
never used.

Besides, if this person were using *any* Go editor or IDE this would be
done automatically, but this coding noob would rather trash the thing
before even successfully coding anything in it at all.

For a bonus laugh, read all the "informed" comments and remember these
are the same people who take valuable time from their days to rant on
tumblr and reddit and answer "Which language do you love the most?"
idiotic surveys on Stack Exchange.

The writer gives up their JavaScript script-kiddy roots when complaining
about Go's concurrency model after clearly been raised on the fucking
moronic async/await model of JS that Rust also followed (finally, after
they decided to add it to the language about three years after, unlike
Go where it was a first-class consideration from the start).

My frustration about all of this is that assholes like this are more
likely to put dumb, uninformed shit on the Web that people will more
likely see than any amount of quality information whatsoever, because
the people who actually matter are not really publishing a lot, they're
getting shit done that matters.
