# "But Microsoft Windows Telemetry?" I *Choose* Public

People have asked me (since before moving to Windows WSL2 as my daily
Linux driver) what I think about MS spying on me for everything. The
short answer is "I no longer give a fuck."

Remember, I actually went through the pain and suffering of using a
flip-phone for two years (while I still had five perfectly good smart
phones) after seeing ProtonMail's CEO go on TED and talk about privacy
and hearing all of Google's mistakes trying to hear me talk to my phone
and sending very private conversations into their cloud storage. That
freaked me out so badly I had to do something.

But that has all changed.

Since January 2020 I have put pretty much everything about my life into
a live stream at some point, including things that definitely qualify as
TMI. It's not that my position on privacy has changed, just my
*personal* choice to give it completely up. My wife has done the same as
a successful artist in the public eye. This conscious decision is what
has driven my ability to not give a fuck about "telemetry."

Besides, I do most of my research using Lynx (which blocks all
telemetry) and then open any GUI web pages that I need using that. But
even my search telemetry is totally fine. In fact, it helps Google and
Microsoft know about it. And I am making that choice.

I fucking hate that MS is forcing people to give up their privacy just
like I hate that my Google Pixel phone can be activated by the NSA
within five minutes of deciding to snoop on my. I fucking hate that
shit. But that is the current state of affairs and *not* using the dark
magic these services and devices provide is even *worse* because it
would hold back my progress. Like "The Ancient One" from Dr. Strange, I
use "dark magic" to fight the worse evils of the world, like our fucked
up world-wide educational system, corrupt politics, and all the other
true evils. I choose to bring the fight in an open public arena. I know
how to fight from the shadows, but I choose to stand and fight in the
light these days, using as much dark magic as I can muster, and this
means selling some part of my soul to use it.

For what it is worth, both MS and Google have been forced into allowing
more controls over privacy. And, of course, I have fucking abandoned
Facebook and Linkedin. In short, I do not do *anything* on the Internet
or within range of any phone that I don't want anyone so see on YouTube
someday, and I mean anything. I've always hated the "but what do you
have to hide" argument because it's bullshit when you consider things
like Trump-ism and what happened to Anne Frank. But in my current
situation it fully applies.

Related:

* Podcast Episode: How Private is Your Bank Account? \| Electronic Frontier Foundation  
  <https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2021/12/who-peering-your-bank-account>

* Andy Yen: Think your email\'s private? Think again \| TED Talk  
  <https://www.ted.com/talks/andy_yen_think_your_email_s_private_think_again>

* <https://www.usenix.org/system/files/1401_08-12_mickens.pdf>

