# NeoVim v0.5.0 Comes Out, Further Destroying Skills

"hyperextensible Vim-based text editor"

Okay, so I can't leave without commenting how wrong that line is, yet it
is the tag-line for all of NeoVim. If you analyse just the word and
grammar choices you get a very accurate idea of the absolutely clueless
NeoVim project.

## Why is Vim the only word capitalized?

The authors clearly did not pay attention in remedial English class. But
hey, who cares.

## "I Do Not Think That Word Means What You Think it Means"

> Medical Definition of hyperextensible. : having the capacity to be 
> hyperextended or stretched to a greater than normal degree
> hyperextensible joints hyperextensible skin. (Merriam-Webster)

This term usually also is used with "hypermobility" which I know a lot
about because it was a central part of my Yoga instructor training. It
is characterized by individuals who are very "flexible" but put
themselves are far greater risk than the muscle-bound people because
they can permanently damage their joints, you know, like NeoVim
neophytes.


In Yoga and in Vim you want to build stability through strength. People
who are very flexible think they are amazing because they can hit every
Yoga pose, but they really are some of the worst Yogis because they have
no idea about the importance of body alignment and building of strength.

Using Vim properly builds solid, sustainable, properly-aligned strength.
Instead of extending your Vim to be a monster that is completely and
totally incompatible everywhere else, you should build quality mental and
motor strength and speed through scripting and shell integration that
will serve you well anytime you use the command line in addition to your
editing sessions. Then instead of some monstrous plugin you've added to
the "extensible" (not nearly the right definition) NeoVim you now have a
shell script that you can combine --- in the true UNIX way --- with
others in any number of unanticipated pipelines that don't even involve
your editing sessions.

## NeoVim is Dangerous for Beginners Especially

UNIX is *already* extensible. You don't need to build hypermobility into
your editor. Learn UNIX/Linux first. Beginners who learn to over-extend
with NeoVim are damaging their joints in very real ways making them
completely useless on most professional teams that understand this.
People who knowingly pick NeoVim without being able to articulate
clearly and convincingly why they are using alpha software instead of
the default text editor on millions of systems for more than two decades
should never be hired.

In fact, I know of people who will now ask what editor a person prefers
and why during the hiring interview. I used to ask that same question.
There's a lot to be said about a candidate who has actually researched
their decision and can articulate it rather than just following the
often completely asinine, sometimes dangerous, trends. Using NeoVim as
your default --- especially if you actually have a `.vimrc` full of Lua
--- is an automatic disqualification for most ops and security jobs.
Others might still allow it, some clueless startups even prefer it, and
for those, well, that's the filter you need as a quality tech
professional to politely excuse yourself from the interview and find a
company who doesn't have completely dumb-ass technical decisions at its
core.

## More Reasons

I still haven't moved them over, but I still have my [original
point-by-point examination of
NeoVim](https://rwx.gg/tools/editors/neovim/) and conclusions about why
NeoVim is just best to not exist any longer.
