# Best airflow fan setup for indoor (Zwift) cycling with table

25 kph produces roughly 7000 cfm. That's why you build up salt on your t-shirt instead of sweat when cycling outside. I had my Prana yoga pants, DZR leather shoes, a t-shirt, and a short-sleeve Dickies shirt with a Patagonia messenger bake and streaming rig and I hardly had any sweat built up on the Critical Mass ride and the urban, crit-like loops I did after that. I was blown away by how wonderful the wind felt on the descents evaporating all my sweat in one small descent. That just does *not* happen indoors with Zwift.

Then I read about "cardiac drift" and how your body freaks out when it cannot cool you off producing more and more sweat until you are completely dehydrated. I did not realize it, but this is exactly what has been happening on my Zwift rides with a cheap 20 cfm desk fan and t-shirt. Even without the t-shirt, that fan still cannot keep up with the sweat I am putting out, pruning my hands and soaking every towel I have. But towels are *not* the answer.

Towels are nice and all, but with a proper fan setup they should not even hardly be needed. Soaking through towels means that I am in cardiac drift mode where my body isn't getting enough cooling, so it produces way more sweat than needed. In other words, a soaked t-shirt or towel is a sure sign that I don't have enough air flow. And at 7000 cfm that is hard to recreate.

After doing a lot of research and fine-tuning with my own setup, I've hit the sweet spot for me (withough buying that absolutely stupid and overpriced Wahoo fan). The difficulty I face compared to others, is that I have a really nice adjustable standing table under which I put my front tire dividing any air flow from a floor fan. This gives me the best possible table setup, with a full keyboard, access to my sound board, mic controls, mouse, even one or two laptops off to the side so I can monitor a conference call while Zwifting. Most other Zwifters don't have nearly as cool of a table setup as I do. Hell, I have all my water bottles just sitting on the table to grab, even a sandwich if I wanted. The 60" television furthest from the edge by the bike leaves plenty of room on the table without taking away from the view of the television. All this means I have to have separate air flow for my upper body from bottom. So I put the dual fans on the table where I can adjust them at any time by-hand. And I have one mega-fan on the floor pointing up from in front of the front time that is remotely controlled. The result is absolute (noisy) bliss. 

* Two HoneyWell (or Amazon Basics) cyclone fans (200 cfm each) aimed directly at my hands/chest in front of me reachable on the table in front of me from my handlebars. I can turn these on/off/up by hand so I don't freeze until I need it. These are quiet so I turn them down and leave them on post-ride while chilling out in bed or on the computer. They are great all around. <https://a.co/d/fsBeME4>

* One remotely controlled Lasko (3460 cfm) floor/mounted fan directly in front of my front wheel on the floor that I can control remotely blowing from under the table my my legs and thighs.  I can turn this on/off/up from the remote resting on my desk. Given the size and volume of this fan being a bit farther away is good. <https://a.co/d/0cQigQt>

To deal with the noise I have been using headphones. There is so much air flow that the extra heat from wearing headphones is not an issue. In fact, I need to do that anyway to hear the videos or music that I put on and it makes the entire thing more immersive because it blocks out the sound of three small planes taking off. I even wear a baseball cap without overheating to help delay the sweat from falling in my face. I am also happy to report I can easily wear a cotton t-shirt without soaking it through like this allowing me to stream my sessions (again). Before, when going shirtless, I stopped streaming those session for a lot of it. With my dynamic mic, I can set it up to be right in front of my mouth and turn it on or down when I want to talk to people. It's the perfect Zwift streaming setup. The airflow was the thing I was really missing and I am super happy to have that dialed in.

Related links:

* <https://turbocyclist.com/bike-gear-reviews/accessories/best-indoor-cycling-fan>
* <https://www.cyclistshub.com/best-fans-for-indoor-cycling/> 
