# Strong Opinions, Weakly (or Weekly) Held

I've read a few blogs on this deal of having "strong opinions, that are
weakly held" over the year 2020. People take sides on whether it is a
good thing or not. But as I understand it, it is just science. Here's
why.

## Forming and Defending a "Strong Opinion"

A "strong opinion" is one that has been formulated after a lot of
thought, at least that is the idea here. This is consistent with
science, you form a hypothesis initially as a casual observation, then
you take steps to check if that idea might have legs, then you finally
(albeit continually) test that idea using controlled testing and
research. Having a strong opinion means you have thought and researched
it well, not blindly repeated what some other mob has decided is true or
"trending." You are entitled to that strong opinion and can speak
strongly about it because of this. If you have not put the time in
saying, "I have no opinion" or "I only have a slight opinion about that"
is always fine. 

For example, this is how I concluded that NeoVim is absolute shit. I had
a hunch it sucked and wondered why anyone would ever use it, but I asked
around in an open way, I even tried it. I sincerely wanted to understand
what was drawing people to it. Then I spent an entire Saturday reading
through the entire change log discovering stuff that not even 50% of
NeoVim users even know. I documented all their changes and addressed
every explanation they cite in their own documentation. Then I published
my new strong (and *very* unpopular) opinion. I can defend it
specifically and frankly don't give a shit when those who attack me for
having it haven't even put the same time in to discuss it. It's not
"cancelling" them. It's not wasting time conversing with someone too
lazy to put the time in to fully understand my conclusion and talk about
it point by point.

## Weakly (Even Weekly) Held

This is the part that really grabbed me when I learned what it means. I
change my opinions so frequently that I have developed the nick name
"Flip Flop Rob" and have even been memed by my "students" in 2014 for
it. But I've learned this isn't a flaw, this is a sign that I'm
following this part of the mantra and scientific method which states
that in the face of new data and research you *must* change your
conclusions if they contradict your earlier findings. This is the most
fundamental principle of the scientific method and the one that is most
frequently --- and dangerously --- broken that least to dogma and
disaster. You *must* change your conclusions, and yes, this means you
might have to change them *every fucking week* if you are moving that
quickly in your discovery of new information and research.

In other words, changing your mind all the time because you have new
information is a *good* thing, not "flippant" or "wishy washy". It is
true that before you publish you strong opinion you might want to wait a
bit, but in our world of rapid change and constant new discoveries we
must allow people to change just as rapidly and without attacking them
and forcing backfire-effect (something discussed well on Adam Ruins
Everything). 

Allowing yourself and others to have weakly held beliefs --- even that
change weekly --- is crucial to the development of a progressive
society. Without it we all lose. Without it, not only would presidents
of both parties not be allowed to change their position on inclusive
marriage, but we'd be blood-letting everyone to "get out the bad blood",
or worse, using CoffeeScript.

