# News for 2023/10/02

Hey @everyone, managing the music and fishies 24x7 is just not going to work out. I'll still do it from time to time, but it will not be a regular thing. The coworking streams (with music) will be far less frequent and never on a regular schedule because of AI lip reading and intellectual property considerations (absolutely no code that I write while streaming can ever be used in any work projects). I've had to error on the side of caution. 

What will be a regular thing is Bike / Sunset streaming every day usually from 4-8pm Eastern (depending on work, weather, and sunset times), tech colearning Fridays, and tech boost and coding on Saturdays. Book club happens only when I feel like it on Sundays, same as 80sDanceParty. Critical Mass is every single last Friday in Charlotte and hopefully I can ride with more groups in addition to that. Front-Lawn Friday at McColl Art Center are also regular IRL events.

Many of you have noticed that I do a lot more regular streaming to the Travel and Outdoors category than the tech categories and that is not likely to change. The goal is to have a set of videos that people can work through and review since most people cannot commit more than a few hours a week and even then often cannot attend "in person" anyway so that works out. I do like talking generally about tech and work during my daily bike ride the same way I would with friends on a ride. Tech conversations on Discord should also get more attention as well (which almost everyone can use from their personal phones even while at work).

By 2024 I do hope to become more of a "digital nomad" weeks (hopefully one per quarter) so that I can share interesting places across America while working from the road and living out of my car and different camp sites. But that all completely depends on the money I can raise from the stream to cover it. In the meantime, there is still a ton of interesting bike routes to do right around here.

After this DJI Action 4 rig upgrade is complete and biking streams return to just being get-up-and-go I'll be adding paddle board streams on Lake Norman as well (sometimes using RTMP from DJI Action 4, which is waterproof, and can be used for recording underwater footage as well). I hope to have my first paddle board live stream the weekend of Thanksgiving and will continue through Winter since boat traffic is so much less. (I need to find my thermal booties and wetsuit top though.)

While I realize we are giving up the IRC feel. I just have to cut back. Between eight-ten hours of work, four hours of Outdoor IRL streaming, and about two hours a day travelling and working on live stream administration stuff, there's not much time left in the day. (Yes, that's right. It takes at least an hour a day to keep a live stream community up and running---especially one with IRL biking involved. It's hard work, which is why I'm still missing emotes, bots, and a lot of stuff I want to add.) Everything I can do to simplify helps out. 

As always, I really appreciate your continued support and how much you help me and each other. I'll try to do a newsletter every Monday morning or so to keep everyone up to date. Thanks.
