# If I Were 18 Again, I Wouldn't Go to College

ðŸ“º <https://youtu.be/QGGKs2oNlWM>

> The average cost of college* in the United States is $35,720 per
> student per year. The cost has tripled in 20 years, with an annual
> growth rate of 6.8%. The average in-state student attending a public
> 4-year institution spends \$25,615 for one academic year. 

Average college expenses in America are well over \$140,000 for *any*
four year degree from *most* universities. Going to a "good" college or
having to stay six years (like me) would be well over \$200,000, and for
what?

College costs are simply not worth it. Every single advantage of college
can and has been achieved by thousands without it. I would still go to
college, just not right away and *definitely* not in a main-stream
American college, not even the "good" ones.

Instead, here's what would do differently were I 18 contemplating
what I know now and having to deal with the current world. 

First of all, **I would not go on a Mormon mission.** It practically
bankrupted my family of 10 (oldest of eight) and for what, some mythical
blessings? No. I loved my mission, but nearly died several times and am
still dealing with trauma from it. Did it make me grow up and shit? A
bit, but not more than an independent travel abroad would do.

In fact, most of what the Mormon's essentially forced me to do by
telling me I would not go to Heaven if I did not do a mission at my own
expense was profit them. The church already demanded 10% of all our
incomes (just for starters, you commit to give everything including your
life to the Church in the secret LDS temple ceremony that no one warns
you about). But that is not enough, they want to get more money and
power so they send naive boys into the world as little uninformed
con-artists to get more from others in the name of a "message of
happiness." (And no I am *not* misrepresenting it. It's the biggest
fucking con game in the religous world short of what the Witnesses and
Scientologists do.)

**I would still probably stay in high school.** I learned practically
nothing my senior year at high school, but it was one of my favorite. I
was able to really have some good times with a close group of friends.
Not everyone has that experience.

**I would do a Snowden and get my GED and leave** if my high school
exprience was bad. There's nothing that demands you even attend high
school at all (except parents). If I were not into high school (and that
is hard to tell today) I would just leave as early as 17 by passing my
high-school equivalency exam.

**I would work and live with parents or grand-parents** until I was able
to get my first tech job. There's nothing wrong with this, but you need
to prove to your parents that you have a plan and aren't just
free-loading playing games all day and eating their food. You do that by
taking responsibility for chores around the house and holding down even
a shitty job. Store up that money to pay for technical certifications
and building a personal tech learning lab at home, for now. Sure you can
play games and socialize. You should. Just don't over do it.

**I would try to work for technical company or store.** In America, Best
Buy might not be the best, but it is better than McDonald's or even
serving in a restaurant because even if restaurant tips are better, the
experience and exposure to the technology is far more valuable long
term.

**I would get my A+ certification.** As much as I hate the company that
gives it and the multiple-guess format, I would rush getting this
certificate since it is the gateway that the most American companies use
to identify people who are "serious" about their beginning tech career.
Getting an A+ is far more important than even a college degree for
getting entry-level technical jobs. If you work in a tech company, even
in retail, they might even help you pay for it.

**I would learn to build (mostly) Linux machines.** While
you are working and learning your A+ use that time to build as many
Linux systems on your own as you can. Use old hardware. Get garage
space. It will make learning the A+ stuff way more fun and useful. You
should include Windows in there as well (and probably will if you are a
gamer). Don't combine Linux and Windows (dual boot). Instead, build two
or more systems: a Windows system for gaming, a Linux server, a Linux
laptop for hacking, and perhaps one or more Raspberry Pi computers. As
you build them, learn to network them --- including how to make your own
Ethernet cables. When you do this you'll dominate the A+. Document
everything you are doing generally in a personal, public blog that can
be included in under a "Projects" heading in your resume.

**I would learn to code on my own.** This one I actually did when I was
12, but I would definitely do it at 18 again. I would focus on learning
bash scripting first (to coincide with Linux). I would also learn
PowerShell to go with Windows and the A+ certification (and to hack
Windows machines). Then I would learn C, and Go, and Python, and finally
just enough Web (HTML, CSS, JavaScript) to make my blog nice. I would
rush learning bash, PowerShell, and Python probably and have them mostly
mastered by the time I took the A+ certification. 

**I would get a GitHub account and maintain it.** Of course, all of my
"good" coding projects would be in GitHub (no public hello world stuff
in there). It would supplement and contain my resume and the source code
of my blog. Potential employers will look at this before anything else
that's not on your resume.

**After certifying I'd get a better tech job as soon as possible**
without leaving your parents home yet, get a *good* tech job that is
paying you directly for the expertise you learned on your own completing
the A+. 

**I'd move out on my own after getting my first tech job.** The money
from even a beginning tech job will have you swimming in money as a
single person in just about ever city in the World. Enjoy it, but don't
overdo it. It's easy to overspend at that point in your life. Save up
that money and set it aside for exploring the world and doing things
that college would have helped you do, like discovering who you are,
meeting other people, and exploring the world literally and physically.
This is the great moment of your youthful power. You are young, very
well provided for, still healthy and horney and hungry. Live in that
moment, but learn from it. Don't waste it entirely in front of a
computer screen, or overworking for an employer that abuses you (like
Nike did me). This is the jumping off point for the rest of your life.
Make sound decisions by getting as much exposure to ideas and people and
technology that you can. You are not yet committed to anything, not even
your current job. Leverage this freedom to build your foundation, to
prepare the soil for the roots you will eventually put down, whether you
plan to or not.

**Find a mentor.** Make aquaintenances with people who have been around
the block, in my time the "grey beards" as they called them (even though
I would never use that term today. They will be very willing to share
their lessons-learned.

**Get several tech certifications while employed.** Combined with the
on-the-job learning from your new tech job, continue to learn and push
your mastery of essentials and in-demand skills. You have your lab you
first built at home to mess with that you spend a fraction of the the
money on that you would have wasted on college. Leverage your learning
lab while supplementing it with more "paper" that the industry has
decided matters even more than college degrees. As of today, here are
the certifications (in addition to A+) that I personally would pursue
(based on my interests and the level of trust these create with
potential employers). Every one requires lab interaction over a web
portal to the terminal (not just multiple-guess):

* Linux Foundation Certified IT Associate (LFCA)
* Cisco Certified Network Administrator (CCNA)
* Linux Foundation Certified System Administrator (LFCS)
* Linux Foundation Certified Engineer (LFCE)
* Certified Kubernetes Application Developer (CKAD)
* Certified Kubernetes Administrator (CSA)
* Certified Kubernetes Security Specialist (CKS)
* Offensive Security Certified Professional (OSCP)

I might also get some of the other Offensive Security certifications,
but they are spendy (but still way cheaper than a college that charges
\$2000 to force you to run for 15 minutes a day in "Physical Fitness"
class).

Even with minimal real world experience, getting these certifications,
and the knowledge that comes with them will *easily* get you a tech job
as an SRE or Infrastructure Engineer or Cloud-Native Engineer or
Security Analyst in the \$140K+ range pretty much anywhere in the world
(so long as you are being paid by countries tied to the dollar and
euro).

At some point along the way, if you really think you missed out on life
because you didn't have enough time to read whatever the fuck you wanted
on your own, or socialize in any circle of people of your choosing, or
travel the world without fear of getting back in time for whatever
bullshit semester schedule imposed on you, well, then you can *still* go
to college. 

If it were me, I'd quit my job after making all the ridiculous money and
use it to live abroad in a foreign country that welcomes ex-pats to live
there and go to college for free. I'd use my money to pay cost of
living, learn the language in the best way possible (immersion), maybe
even teach English as a second language to make side-money, and enjoy
pursuing a 'bull-shit' major like philosophy or psychology or world
history or Russian or French literature that would *never* get me a job.
Now that's a college experience I would really enjoy, not one that would
dessimate my future with unforgivable debt, forever.

Related:

* Average Cost of College \[2021\]: Yearly Tuition + Expenses  
  <https://educationdata.org/average-cost-of-college>

Tags:

    #life #education #learning #college #advice #certify
