# Specifically Scheduled Boost Times Always Fail

This is the third time that my attempt to keep to a specific hour for
the Boost content has failed. There is just too much of life that gets
in the way. Then, I have all this extra time on some weekends. It seems
like every time this happens I make the same conclusion: Boosts are best
unscheduled.

About mid-way through the Boost the number of live people in attendance
always dwindles off anyway. Everyone else is just as optimistic about
their own schedules going into it.

The answer is to generally do one per day when possible in order to
maintain a good pace, and be okay doing none, or two even during a
single day. It also means I need to take the quality of the YouTube
content up a notch, which also means that after I've finished I'll have
a full Udemy course (or two) that people can follow along in a super
structured way if they wish (with identical content on YouTube). The
question is if I can maintain the same dynamic with such an erratic
schedule. I will *always* film them before a live-studio audience just
because that's my style of presentation. I love when people say they
forget they are watching a YouTube video and start trying to chat back
at the screen.

Now that I have topic changes linked to titles and updates on Twitch,
YouTube, Twitter, and GitHub it should be pretty easy to get that
audience started. It also means I can do "retakes" if necessary. But I
will never get into the editing business, that always takes so much time
it isn't worth it.
