# Derek Taylor's Job is Making YouTube Videos

Distrotube's life goal is to quit his job (in Social Media Marketing)
and make videos about Linux distributions and wacky politics.  And looks
like he's going to reach his goal, and that's fine, but *no one* should ever
listen to or trust anything this inexperience shill has to say about
*any* technology -- especially if when his only formal education is an
Associates in Social Media Marketing from fucking LDS Business College.
It's completely obvious Derek's agenda is to shill to the most popular
topics and say whatever the fuck will get him the most views and those
sweet Patreon "Executive Producers". Every action in his public life has
confirmed this objective truth. Watch him if you want, but there are far
better ways to learn actual, relevant skills.

> Case you hadn't noticed, I am fucking tired of pussy-footing around
this. Derek just happens to be one of my first targets. We have to call
this shit out before the 10s of thousands of people watching them are
ruined.

Almost ever fucking video from DistroTube is full of completely
irrelevant and nonsensical bullshit that demonstrates a lack of basic
technical skill, fundamentals of the UNIX philosophy, basic critical
thinking, and frankly just plain common sense. This is exactly what I
would expect from someone who went to to LDS Business College and has no
actual technical experience to speak of. (I grew up almost literally
down the street in West Valley City, Utah).

Why the *fuck* is *anyone* listening to this Professional Shill?

Stop. Stop now, before he rots your brain with a shitty marketing hype,
inexperienced pseudo-techo babble, and bad practices. He's definitely
not worthy of the `cmatrix` he plays on screens in the background. He
openly admits to hating the terminal and preferring Emacs because, and I
quote, "It's a GUI application."

The dude would never even pass the first round of technical interviews
for *any* modern technology job in the field for which he professes
expertise.

Seriously, find *anyone* else with more experience to listen to and just
stop wasting your time with this dude.

Let me be clear, while I do put my own content out there, and while I do
get paid for it by sponsors (thank you). I also have a full-time job and
30+ years developing software and using Linux daily. But it's not about
me. It's about *anyone with actual experience.* 

I've already said it, but I'm gonna say it again. *Please* find
*experienced* people to be your mentors, wherever they are. Look into
your own family and social circles, get a mentor from among those people
who actually work in the trade, *not* someone anxious to get *out of
technology* so he can make fucking "review" videos all day and make good
on his degree in social media marketing.

There. I've said my peace. Dems fighting words, I know. But I really
don't give a shit. They need to be said.

* [Linked in for Derek Taylor]: <https://www.linkedin.com/in/derek-taylor-6a725b195/>

