# "I don't wanna be too healthy" (Barak Obama)

I am so fucking tired of the apologetic pandering from people about the world-wide, self-inflicted health crisis facing all humanity. At a time when huge populations cannot locate enough food we can watch "documentaries" all about the problems facing "the working class" and completely ignore the rampant obesity in every fucking scene. Instead, the writers make people out to be "folksy" with camera zooms on yet another fried meal. The gay concierge of the hotel is the only one taking time to cook amazing, healthy food. 

I really hate it when irresponsible Americans say things like "it's my own damn body and I'll do what I want so long as I ain't hurting anybody else" whether it is spreading disease or bankrupting medicare with their adult-onset diabetes at 40. These are the same fuckers who tell struggling mothers what do with *their* bodies and don't have a problem. How about we pass legislation that forces you to *go for a fucking walk to stay healthy* and outlaws fried food, nope, not in this "great" country.

Barak Obama, who clearly cares about his own health, orders lunch with the CEO of Tata, a well-meaning but fucking clueless man who was married a woman according to the horoscopes of he and his wife and who drinks a bunch of random shit every morning to "stay healthy" despite no scientific basis for it. Barak downplays the health of the "green salad" he orders  on the phone calling in the order "I'll have some french fries with my green salad because I don't wanna be too healthy."

Look, for the most part, I like what the Obamas are doing with this series Working but it absolutely infuriates me that to appear to be just-one-of-the-people he thinks he has to downplay living a healthy life. 50% of the series spotlights the At Home Care organization that directly gets its money from taxes and Medicare. In fact, one episode has the "self-made" CEO go to Washington with their rock-start, folksy "lobbiest" to beg for the money that "they took away."

While I agree that we definitely need more money for social programs assisting those in need, it sure doesn't help the cause when the leader of that company (and pretty much everyone in every fucking scene) is completely and totally oblivious to their own responsibility for eating well and doing the *fucking minimum* to maintain their own health. No rational person wants to give money to any organization that thinks its just another day at work to hobble along---at 300 pounds---on the steps of any building, totally panting from the walk from the car because of how fucking outrageously out of shape these people have become. **They don't see anything wrong with it!** In fact, I'm quite confident my calling it out will get me canceled by more than 70% of Americans if they actually knew. But I have no shits to give. Someone has to call this out. It's not okay to be obese, ever. There, I said it. And no, I don't give a shit about your "feelings." You fucking did this to yourself.

What's worse is all the people on the planet who enable this entitled, victim thinking. Who say that these willful consumers are obese only because they don't have the money to eat a healthy meal. That's complete and total bullshit! Stop fucking frying everything, morons!

I have to calm down. I have lived with this idiocy my entire life and seen it descimate personal lives and even the very culture of personal health responsibility itself. I've been raised under extreme poverty but found a way to make it work, to stay healthy. It's what kept me sane. I have watched complete gluttony with no remorse and heard the whining of these same people later, after sucking down literally gallons of sugar-water every week. If you are morbidly obese, 9 times out of 10 it is your OWN FUCKING FAULT! A ton of individual decisions led you to where you are today and every decision you make from this moment on is yet another on the path. Choose today to make different ones. Educate yourself. Stop feeling sorry for yourself and your predicament. Own it. Grow up! The Internet is everywhere. Responsible sources for how to maintain health and wellness are everywhere. Fucking prison inmates are some of the most healthy people on the planet and they have *nothing*! Read about it, for fuck's sake. And stop pandering to those who think it's just a little indulgence here and there. So many of these people won't touch "the devil's" alcohol or smoking, but have no problem downing an half-gallon of ice cream in one sitting. It's fucking disgusting and yes *you* are disgusting if you do it. It's not cool or masculine to show off your stinking, deadly, gross, visceral belly fat. It's a plague as deadly to humanity as leprosy and I don't want to pay for your fat ass any more! Do something about it instead of celebrating it and demonizing people like me for calling you out for it.
