# Beware of Gaps in Learning, Be Comprehensive

I had someone watching my screen at work the other day tell me, "You
can't use comments in YAML." I just smiled and said, "Well this is just
for now." I didn't have the heart to correct this senior architect at
my new place of employment. He also said, "You have to use Google for
that?" When I typed `? something` onto the terminal to search with Lynx.
He said nothing. I think, um, I basically just silenced him. I had the
search result in under a second. That sounds like bragging (and it is)
but hear me out.

I sincerely respect and admire this person, but they have *major* gaps
in their learning. It was a good reminder to me that just-in-time
learning --- as essential and amazing as it is --- the kind that
motivates people to say things like, "Well, I had two months to get all
of Kubernetes running when a VP asked for it" or "He had two weeks to
create all of JavaScript" as if it were something to be proud of. It's not. It's fucking dangerous.

God knows I'm an advocate for eXploration and eXperimentation in
learning (the X in RWX) but it is *critical* that people create their
own comprehensive learning strategies to supplement the fun, challenge-
and project-based learning. We love this style of learning because it is
like solving a bunch of puzzles, playing a hacking game, with tangible
immediately results that we care about. But it does *not* hit all the
bases. 

This affinity for just-in-time learning is why tech "Recipe" books have
been so successful over the years and why Stack Overflow does so well
now. They have the solutions to that one immediate problem we are
having. We don't care about the rest or the context. It's just human
nature to prefer this. But it's *dangerous* human nature. 

This is the sort of stuff for which a healthy level of imposter syndrome
is actually a good thing. We need to remember to ask ourselves
constantly, "am I missing something?" Because when we don't, well,
suddenly we don't know that YAML can contain comments and might
pedantically inform someone who just laughs to themselves at the very
basic thing you just revealed you don't know, and frankly don't seem to
*want* to know. I do.
