# I Fucking Hate Front-End, It's Ruining Tech

The world seems  glutted with mediocre, overconfident, one-trick-pony,
"front-end engineers" (which pisses *actual* engineers off) while the
industry is *starving* for people who have even basic terminal skills.

For example, one absolutely brilliant person gave an "Creating Helm
Charts" presentation to 90 technical professionals and used Notepad++
and Windows file explorer to change files even though they use `kubectl`
and `docker` from the command line. This person had not learned the `mv`
command. (That actually happened).

That example is fucked up and there's a reason it is.

"Hackers" are using bloated, shitty, overpriced, proprietary Java apps
for fuck's sake and *barely* know the terminal or even how to code. They
couldn't even name the seven network layers. Some even brag about their
lack of a clue publicly on YouTube and still rake in the views.

Again, that's fucked up.

Somehow we have all got this entirely backwards. We are somehow taught
that applications development is synonymous with web and mobile
development. It's just not. It's so fucking not.

Because of this way too many technologists *never* learn these essential
solid foundational skills. Instead, they learn web development *first*
because it is the most ubiquitous and empowering (which it is). So the
industry has come to view terminal and server-side Linux and programming
skills as "extra" or stuff to "finally" learn after learning whatever
else they find important.

To be fair, for more than seven years I started most people out with
JavaScript because it is the most empowering and ubiquitous language for
most people. You can use it anywhere without installing anything. Just
open your web browser and boom, you have an interactive JavaScript
session any time you want it. You still need to learn that, everyone
does, but that's not *all* you need to learn to have a solid foundation
on which to build other things.
