# Open Credential Merit System (OCMS) for Learning

> WARNING: This document is now maintained at
https://github.com/rwxrob/ocms/about as of Sunday, October 2, 2022,
10:18:29AM EDT. Eventually, that will be a copy of whatever is at
https://ocms.cc when that is up.


> Don't dictate, facilitate. (OCMS Motto)

OCMS (pronounced "Occam's") is a learning system focused on cutting away
the unnecessary waste and broken priorities of traditional "teaching"
approaches by focusing entirely on motivating and fostering autodidactic
learning habits within individuals who entirely control their own
learning.

OCMS is a practical system. You'll never hear anyone use the words
"practical" or "applied" pejoratively (as has been done by asinine
academicians for centuries). Applied knowledge is the only knowledge
that matters in OCMS. Theory without application is useless on the job.

OCMS promotes employable skills. While hobbyists and dabblers
can certainly benefit from the approach. The core priority is on
producing practical learning producing modern employment opportunities.
This includes unexpected vocational skills such as getting "good to gig"
by preparing resumes, participating in authentic social networking,
personal financial management, writing, communication, and other skills
that are not often directly associated with employment, particularly in
the tech sector.

OCMS focuses on tech, but it not necessarily limited to tech. The
methods and pedagogical approaches can well be applied to *any*
profession. 

OCMS eliminates the broken notion of "teachers" who dictate curriculum
and assignments and are forced to waste energy on protecting against
cheating broken, zero-trust, overly simplified, irrelevant,
multiple-guess, testing systems that have objectively proven to fail
both those undergoing these "assessments" and those who would be asked
to trust them as a measure of employability. Our world is slowly
realizing most of our tests, degrees, and certifications are woefully
broken. Certifications that require monitored execution of actual tasks
in a controlled lab environment are a hopeful change in the right
direction, one OCMS hopes to promote further.

OCMS replaces "teachers" with ***mentors*** who work *for and with*
learners, taking direction from *them* as they facilitate their
learning. Mentors will often work side-by-side with those they are
helping to learn, together, fostering trusted relationships that can
last a lifetime. A mentor is more likely to say, "You're the boss, you
tell me", something no "teacher" has ever said (even though some of the
best mentors have *also* been employed as teachers). The mentor's job is
to guide the learner, to clear confusion, to explain the map, give
direction, outline options, and provide context. It's the learner's job
to choose their path and take personal responsibility for their choices.
Such learners will never say, "You didn't teach me that" or "What are we
doing today?" When mentor and learner meet for an OCMS session, the
learner has a full list of questions and work to be reviewed, and
opinions to discuss and confirm. This is exactly how practical scout
learning has worked for decades.

OCMS only works if the mentor has already been down that path. Mentors
must possess a working mastery of the topic or skill and be able to
demonstrate their merit at any time. Teachers without practical
experience in the topic or skill are more than irrelevant, they are
dangerous. Their insecurities (combined with the pressure of a
profession unappreciated by every age of humanity) often morph into
angry dictatorial tendencies that toxify learning environments where
"students" are told to sit down, be quiet, and listen. No meaningful
learning has *ever* happened that way, yet our schools are filled with
these toxic individuals at every level.

OCMS mentors organize their learning objectives into ***open
credentials*** colloquially called ***badges*** (although the term
"merit badge" can create some confusing implications and should probably
be avoided). An open credential is a outlined map of skills and
knowledge written in active voice as if listed on a resume with specific
requirements modeled originally after the merit badges and rank
advancements of earlier scouting systems. All OCMS open credentials must
be licensed under Creative Commons (CC0, "no rights reserved") so that
anyone can adapt and modify them to their own needs. OCMS badges follow
a strict YAML structured data schema to maximize versioning, sharing,
and sustainable adaptation. Unlike the rigid scouting merit badge
requirements that almost never change, OCMS badges are meant to
regularly be adapted and changed based on the needs of the individual,
industry, and society.

OCMS deeply acknowledges the reality that modern learning methods
must embrace software development best practices if there is to even be
a hope of keeping up with the pace of modern knowledge and skills
requirements. Indeed, the core cause of modern educational institutional
failure is this massive disconnect which only continues to separate
those who need skills from those who want and need to learn them, all
while incurring massive financial burdens on all parties. OCMS cuts
through the overhead of such systems and promotes rapid adaptation.

The ideas for OCMS originated during a collaborative session of mentors
and educators live on rwxrob.tv in early 2021. The term 'open
credential' was coined at that time as was the decision to let the
learner decide for themselves when to declare whether or not they have
passed a certain credential. Then, the learner can decide to invite one
or more additional mentors to validate their own assessment and provide
their own stamps of trustworthy approval. Such a system promotes and
runs on trust above all, trust that then propagates into working
relationships with employers and others.

The word "merit" is inspired by the courage of visionaries from various
scouting programs since 1911 who have been gamifying learning and
achievement since well-before such terms existed.

Related:

* <https://ocms.cc> (future home of OCMS specification)

Tags:

    #pedagogy #education #learning #100daysofcode #edtech
