# Remember the People Who Aren't Shit Stains

When you get frustrated by the evil people in the world who will
literally steal from you when you are down on your luck and yet doing
everything in your power to make a difference in the world, when you are
receiving high praise and teary-eyed thanks from those whom you have
helped, while these evil people do everything in their power, including
lying to those all around you, who actively seek to destroy you and your
business, in those times, just know you are doing the right thing. 

You are catching this shit *because* you are doing the right thing, not
as punishment. The reason the Universe is letting it happen is to propel
you forward, to give you the contrast and the reminder that you need to
*never* become those monsters. Focus on those who have been rays of joy
and sunshine in your life, whom you have helped and have helped you, who
are free from dogmatic, racist, politically-motivated hate, who are
intelligent, emotionally connected to those around them, warm and
loving, who have faced the worst humanity has to offer *with* you. Love
them. 

Don't waste a breath or heartbeat hating those who would have you
fear them and lose everything and would seek to steal as much as they
can in their name of their fucked-up righteousness and diseased ethics.
They are zombies to their own self-deception, incapable of understanding
love. Their very children hate them without them knowing, and fear
telling them.

There cannot be love and peace in the world without these bacteria
existing to realize the difference between sickness and health. Stay
well, get over them, don't get mad, get busy building things that make
their actions not only forgotten, but pitiful and insignificant in
comparison. They are nothing compared to you and what you have to offer.
