# People Are People

Recently I was attacked in Twitter by someone who took offense at my
personal notes on GitHub (which are public) and then immediately
attacked my personality and way of mentoring. A bunch of others jumped
on the bandwagon following their apparent leader. That's not a problem,
I've been criticized more harshly by more important people before, but I
know what I'm doing and that my method and personality are not for
everyone.

These posts contained no names whatsoever (and never did), only
frustrations and a collection of mannerisms and commonalities between
them, mannerisms and commonalities that this person took to immediately
and defensively to refer to themselves. 

It is true that the person does some of those things, but not others.
The truth is I had over a dozen specific people in mind when thinking
about it, *none of whom* I named personally, most of whom, in fact, are
on YouTube. 

I'm doing my best to just keep on going, but I overreacted when I saw
the Twitter post and got defensive myself. That was wrong of me. I've
learned a lot from this person. I wrote about that as well, but that
didn't get called out publicly and by name with a clear attacking tone
on Twitter.

The moral of the story? Just don't read Twitter. ;) But more
importantly, just don't give a shit. Be your own person. People are
always going to interpret what you put out there the way they want, they
will lie about you, attack you, steal your money (recently happened to
me), they bring their own background, insecurities, biases, and reality.

Yes, I am an asshole. I admit it. I'm not into perception management at
all. It's ruining our world, "influencers" and shit. But I'm usually the
asshole looking out for you and not attacking people for no reason, or
worse, an imagined reason that I really think is real. 

I can do better. But I will not stop calling out shit as I see
it, and immediately calling myself out when presented with new
information. The difference here is that I will *openly* admit when I'm
wrong and work to change. Many others will choose to double-down and
never admit wrong. "Strong opinions, weakly held" is what I choose
to strive for, even when I fail. 

And to the person who will likely read this, well, I just removed that
last paragraph with `dap`, which I learned from you. ;)
