# English is a Fundamental Tech Requirement

Every time I get into the skills tree thing to help people chart their
path into the tech industry I'm reminded of the fundamental requirements
that no one mentions even though they are far more important than
learning to code. One of them is full English proficiency, not just
enough to get by.

Today, this has nothing to do with American/British imperialism
(although it once was). It's just a fact, a fact that gets overlooked in
every meeting I've had over my career. 

I've always had people on my team who have no fucking idea what we are
talking about in pretty much every meeting. Then, they run off thinking
they've understood and inevitably there is a misunderstanding and
conflict later because of it. 

This problem is exponentially exacerbated when other members of the team
are fast-talking, technical types who could give a shit about ensuring
others actually understand what they are saying. Or worse, technocrats
who purposefully fast-talk as a political move to subtly leave out those
who don't understand. I cannot overstate how frequently this problem
crops up on technical teams I have worked with in the past, and even
currently.

The only way around this is to require that *all* English speakers on
the team use a certain level of English, no more, no less. I've seen
this work while working with a team of Europeans. In fact, I get the
sense that Europeans are used to doing it. They default to English in a
group since sometimes there are a half-dozen native languages spoken in
the group. I've even heard of companies holding job interviews and team
meetings entirely in English even though everyone on the team speaks the
same non-English language. They are so comfortable doing this that they
just intuit the need for ensuring that everyone is understanding each
other. *Americans do not do this.* 

Honestly, I think given the rise of ex-pats and multi-national teams
where *English* is the second language of *most* of the team that
fast-talking native English speakers are ultimately fast-talking
themselves subtly out of a job --- especially if their manager is a
non-native English speaker. 

It's not overt. It's subconscious. The annoyance of not understanding
a person for so long grows into something more, into a "team fit"
situation. It's not prejudice, at least no more than firing someone for
being unable to speak English at all. 

This seems to affect Americans particularly strongly because we really
don't give a shit about being understood. It's one thing to behave like
that on a personal live stream or YouTube video. It's quite another in a
professional capacity where the entire team suffers. Besides, videos can
be slowed down and repeated, conf calls cannot.

It gets even worse because people tend to lump non-native English
speakers into the "children" category subconsciously. They sound like a
child, so they must be as smart and experienced as a child (which is
obviously bullshit). 

I *know* we do this. I became so totally aware of it after I learned my
first second language. When I was able to understand native French
speakers their intelligence and fluency and everything were obvious to
me. Before that, listening to them attempt broken English was, um, cute.

I had one particularly strong experience of this with America false
impressions based on language ability with a Russian bus driver friend
who was a college professor who took the job because it paid more (at
the time) since he knew a bit of English. All the Americans coming onto
the bus thought he was a nice old man, a kind bus driver making ends
meet, but this dude was a multi-degreed Moscow University professor with
more intellectual capacity than that entire bus of people combined.
Ironically, it worked in his favor. The Americans gave the kind old bus
driver a lot more tips in American dollars out of pity. They had no
idea.

So English *does* matter. Without it you really can't even enter the
tech world unless you plan on working in an isolated, nationalist
capacity, and there are plenty of countries where that is true, some of
which are kicking America's ass and laughing at this writing right now.
The Slavic and Asian countries come to mind. China, Japan, and Korea are
so dominant on the tech scene that they (rightfully) look down on
Western technology companies. If one of "those English-speaking
imperialist corporations" has a good idea they just steal it and
recreate it without any English involved. But someone still has to be
very fluent in English to do the stealing. (That's one of my favorite
scenes in Mr. Robot, btw).

Tags:

    #english #career #culture #education
