# Gaming Success is Meth Compared to the Real Thing

I love games. But games have become the preferred drug of those who are
incapable or unwilling to seek *actual* success in other areas of their
lives.

Be honest, what is it about gaming that makes you want to return?
Is it the art? Is it the escape? 

It's obviously a combination of all those things. But I believe there is
one main reason that keeps us coming back over and over, distracting us
from engaging in activities that would produce *real* success --- over
and over: artificial success.

It takes relatively little time to get good enough at most games to feel
that instant dopamine and/or adrenaline hit from winning a game. Game
developers know this well. There are entire YouTube channels that
meticulously deconstruct the insidious ways game developers break down
your rationalism and convince you that you *are* winning and never need
to look away at anything else in your life. This is why gambling is
called "gaming" it's the same false high.

A little of this is fine, it's not unlike associating with the character
of a fictional story to feel their emotions vicariously. It does promote
brain growth and activity. That's well proven at this point. But what
happens when you spend two hours a night gaming and *zero* hours
creating anything of value (according to your values).

I have not only seen this dozens of times, but personally experienced it
over and over. I had 4300 hours in Dota2. I craved it. All the open
source projects, my business, and my family seemed less important
somehow. I did feel guilty, but I couldn't stop. I had become addicted
to the feeling of success, the fake high of that possibility that I
would have that perfect game, that forever seemed to elude me (by
design).

Eventually, after a very passionate meeting with some of my brightest at
SkilStak, we worked ourselves up into a frenzy about just how bad the
Internet had become, about how much a new "essential web" was needed
with new devices and built on Markdown, not HTML. This idea that I could
say "fuck you" to the entire system gave me the boost I needed to
propel me back into open source development.

After a year of that I practically forgot what Dota felt like to play. I
had replaced that dopamine hit with the unique feeling of elegant code
that works in ways I had not dreamed of before, but that was the
realization of my own personal vision. Nothing was particularly popular
or groud-breaking (for that you need a marketing type to peddle your
idea) but it was real, solid, and it mattered in ways that mattered to
people that I respected.

They say you can never break an addiction by just quitting. I don't know
if that is true. But I do know that replacing one with another one has
worked for many. It worked for me. The best cure to wasting your time
doing stupid shit that you *think* you enjoy, is to discover something
else that you enjoy *way* more. Everyone has something. Don't pretend
you don't. You just have to keep looking, keep searching for what you
want to be, who *you* are, and what you want to leave behind in this
world. What *you* want, not what others tell you.

And, if that is truly to be the word's next Dendi, so be it. But even he
moved on to greater pursuits. Sports and gaming are *not* great
pursuits. They don't fucking matter. The sooner you realize that the
better. You can enjoy them as past-times and ways to stay healthy, but
they are *not* significant enough for your life. But there is something,
its up to you to find it. Most won't. Most will laugh at this and go
back to zoning out like the morbidly obese characters from Wall-E being
carted around in front of their screens. That is your choice. If that's
what you want. But most people don't *really* want that.
