# Must Watch: 13th (on Netflix)

I didn't really understand the objective history behind the conclusions
that slavery has just morphed into the American prison system that
accounts for 25% of the world's incarcerated individuals, even though
America is only 5% of the world's population. One of the biggest
revelations from this documentary is the absolute dependency of the
American economy on prison labor (ever single Idaho potato is processed
from ground to grocery store by an inmate). There is no financial
incentive to reform shit. In fact, they only incentive is to push more
people into prison and give them the "criminal" moniker removing their
rights against slavery as defined by the 13th amendment which says
"unless they are criminals." Our history is full of white people
labelling black and brown people as "criminal" for the dumbest and
smallest things originally to perpetuate the Southern economy, and then
later to keep it working. Segregation was horrible, but for a lot of
reasons that people like me didn't understand. It made innocent school
children into "criminals" just for wanting to go to the same school as
everyone else, or drinking from the same fountain, or riding the same
bus seats. This shit was specifically designed to turn innocent people
into criminals, and to troll them into behaving even worse, because if
they become a felon because they retaliate against the trolling
segregation then they lose their rights as a citizen *forever*, which is
why 30% of the black Georgia population cannot vote. If they could,
things would be *very* different.

In short, we still live in exactly the same horrifying times of public
lynchings and civil war. It is just different and adapted to be harder
to identify, by people who have since come forth (like Nixon's aide) and
openly revealed their explicit strategy to criminalize people just for
being black and therefore removing their power, because these white
fucking assholes can't have a country where *everyone* has an equal say.
We have to do more, not as "white saviors" but as people who show up to
be lead by those who understand the situation, those who have lived it
every day, to them I will say, "tell me what I can do, guide me, I have
a particular set of skills, show me what *you* want me to do with them."

I was so moved after watching *13th* that I'm going to dedicate my
Christmases (a very white holiday) to buying and distributing Raspberry
Pis with keyboards --- working *for* a black community leader --- in a
way that makes sense for them, if that is even something that is needed.
My wife has an artist friend with a podcast who has been active in this
for a very long time, Crafted with Cradle. I look forward to build
friendships with people deeply embedded in these communities and
basically dedicating my skills to serving them as directed. I'm so
fucking worried of coming off as a patriarchically oppressive "white
savior" and I know how sensitive any people who have been beaten down so
systematically for so long must be to even my appearance and privileged
history. All I can do is focus on the present, and the present needs me,
needs all of us to get off our fucking asses and help correct the wrongs
of centuries of slavery in all its forms. This is our "holocaust" that
we must never forget, the difference is, people are still being shipped
off right under our noses. It never stopped.
