# Applications Developer Versus Computer Scientist

Over coffee this morning just thinking back to my days at Teleport
Internet Services (and before, Fibernet) and can't help realize that
I've always been a developer. I've always been creating value for the
team or organization or myself by making shit that was needed and
practical. I have a Russian degree, not a CS degree. I did do one
semester of CS and  realized that I could easily do that, but really
did not want to. They weren't fucking *doing* anything! All they were
doing is playing around with their bubble sorts. The action was in the
Language and Linguistics Lab were people every day were creating *real*
applications that had actual value for the people using those
applications. Developing that language software was far more important
to me than anything happening in the entire CS department, and frankly
always has been. The root of the word *application* is "to apply". Why
the fuck are we learning *any* of this if not "to apply" it to something
practical!?

So I'm not disappointed that I don't have a CS degree. I'm fucking proud
of the fact that I don't. I've implemented complex data structures and
algorithms when I needed to *apply* them (for PEGN, for example) but
never before. My role has always been to respond to the "Hey, could you
build a thing that does this and such?" I'm fucking awesome at that and
always have been. I feel like what might come off as arrogance might
eventually inspire someone to realize that you are not "less than" for
building applications that meet needs of humans using the computers. You
are actually "greater than" all the blow-hard, pedantic assholes who
look down on you for not being able to write CS proofs and describe the
difference between finite automata and PEG's infinite lookahead
approaches to lexing data streams (although that does make PEG awesome,
and all the old school compiler-think outdated and irrelevant for most
*applications*, which I why I fucking love Brian Ford, another practical
guy).
