# I *Just* Found `gojq`, and OMG!

Yeah, I also just discovered all the `gh release` stuff under the
absolutely crazy amazing `gh` GitHub command tool. The team that made
that really did a great job. I frequently talk shit that is done poorly,
but the `gh` tool really isn't. They have thought through so much of it,
including extensibility. My only gripe is `getopt` dependence, but they
didn't abuse it too bad (and the entire world still uses `getop` but
me).

So while looking through the code I see this:

* http://github.com/itchyny/gojq/

I immediately cloned it and read through the README.md and I just found
my jaw on the floor. The author (itchyny) is just so thorough. I almost
don't want to look at the code and have my impressions smashed. I'm sure
it is just fine.

Here's the crazy thing, they *improved* `jq`! This `gojq` has floating
point precision and more that `jq` doesn't, not to mention that it is
statically build and will run on *any* device. Yeah, I'm giddy. I cannot
wait to get a `jq` Bonzai branch that brings all this awesomeness into
my composite monolith. Don't have `jq` on the system? No problem, I got
`z jq` in my monolith. Give me 30 seconds to download it *from
anywhere*.

The more time passes, the more amazing things will get complete rewrites
in Go. It is already happening. It's a matter of time before a viable
`vi` replacement is, them `tmux`. I might have to write the `lynx`
replacement myself (no one else cares). But once all those tools are
done. I literally won't have to use *anything* but my `z` command. I can
see that day coming, within five years.

The fact that Rust people are fucking around with that irrelevant
language while all this shit is getting done at light-speed in the Go
community is all the evidence any rational tool smith developer needs to
see. I just am so amazed at Go's exploding progress, like a second wave
of after-burner. It got it first with Kubernetes and all that, now with
the 1.18 release *everyone* is getting in line. Soon the ML people will
be like that one guy I read "I'm doing all my ML in Go from now on". The
only reason everyone hasn't switched is because the libraries aren't
there yet, but the definitely *will* be at this pace. Go's already
burning through the hacker community like wild fire. It's that nexus of
developer communities again, ML, hackers, web. They are all coming to
it.

    #golang #gojq #json #jq #tools #bonzai
