# Kubernetes Demands Skills of a Full IT Department

Been on calls today listening to nothing but very high-end networking
discussions about very high-end hardware and complex Kubernetes network
configuration. This stuff demands the equivalent skills of a full IT
department, including very senior network administrators. This is the
reason when someone says, "You need to learn Kubernetes" you can look at
them like they don't know what the fuck they are talking about. You
can't "know" Kubernetes any more than you can "know" every advanced
administration skill from an entire IT department. For example, I'm
fortunate to have had some network experience (at one time wanted to
just go into network engineering) so I can follow the conversation. But
if all you had was a CKA certification you would be lost on this call
completely. This is why companies like mine ask for Infrastructure
Engineers instead of DevOps people.

By the way, this includes an entire software development team. The
applications that are thrown together for Kubernetes administration and
monitoring require significantly more skills than normally required of
an SRE/System Administrator. I'm *really* fortunate to have a lot of
these, but keeping those skills up means that things like my networking
skills subside. You can't keep them all fresh.

Bottom line: if you are considering working in this Cloud-Native /
Infrastructure space you are *never* going to be able to stop investing
6-12 hours per week (usually on your own time) learning and keeping up
with just the pace of *new* stuff, let alone the basics. A Computer
Science degree for this stuff is totally useless. In fact, I know of no
official path to learn it in any academic institution. It's almost
entirely all lab experimentation and exploration.
