# Twitch Mic-Only VODs Turned Back On

Having VODs active is really a must-have for Twitch. I've been a
consumer of Twitch content more lately since getting the Pixel 6
smartphone and realized that the *Continue Where You Left Off* feature
only works if the streamer has VODs on. This is absolutely critical for
not just educational streams, but any stream where you want to encourage
people to just check in and be reminded of the streams you were watching
previously but were unable to watch any longer, perhaps due to a
conflict with another stream. You can just click and catch up without
losing anything. Plus people watch your VODs when you aren't around
because of time zones and such.

I've added back Twitch VODs now that it is just so incredibly easy to
isolate what sound gets sent. All you have to do is make sure you have
the latest OBS and click on *Enable Advanced Encoder Settings* and
*Twitch VOD Track (Uses Track 2)* and then uncheck *Track 2* in any
sound source you don't want to be sent to Twitch. At first just
unchecking all of *Desktop Audio* got me started, but I hope to add a
new virtual audio device so that I can isolate just Spotify (and other
applications) so that my clips, for example, will still work. I might,
in fact, just keep all sound except my mic out of all videos. That would
allow automatically publishing them to YouTube even if I'm watching
YouTube content. People would see what video I'm watching and go watch
it for themselves. It certainly isn't as good as being live, but it
would prevent any muting on Twitch and most demonetization on YouTube.

Another thing this does is allow users who want to watch what I'm doing
in peace without my music that they might not like. People (so I've
read) like to put me on while working on other things, but are annoyed
that they cannot also have their own music in the background since it
conflicts with mine. Well, now they can, it just won't be live.

Related:

* Twitch reveals new process for dealing with unauthorized music use  
  <https://www.msn.com/en-us/money/other/twitch-reveals-new-process-for-dealing-with-unauthorized-music-use/ar-AAOGq1b>

Tags:

    #dcma #twitch #obs #vods #tips
