# Learn to Learn Like a Hacker

*Before you read this, put on some good dark industrial music.*

It sounds like a trailer for a TV show trying to pump up some idiotic
computer brand with completely obvious product placement, but learning
to learn like a hacker is actually the only true way to learn. Just,
don't ask your public school teacher about it. They'll send you to the
principal's office and call your parents. Hell, I've known teacher's to
send people I've mentored to the head office just for having a terminal
open on their own computer screen.

"Teacher! W*'s hacking!"

*That's not hyperbole. It actually happened.*

So what is it that makes people so enraptured and afraid of hackers?

I believe it's their ability to learn, adapt, and own whatever target
they set their mind to dominating. It's their "artistic" creativity
required to find solutions and their drive to see them through. They
don't take no for an answer, not even from themselves. When they hit
stumbling blocks and lack of motivation they deal with it and adapt
creatively as needed without wallowing in self-pity and doubt. It is
these exact same traits and skills that make technologists of all kinds
dominate their lives and careers. 

*Good* hackers know they don't know things. They know their weaknesses
and their strengths because they are constantly testing themselves,
assessing themselves, and creating detailed, if informal, plans for
self-improvement. They don't need a guru. THEY ARE their own gurus.

But hackers, who might be full of well-earned hubris, also  understand
they cannot do everything all by themselves. They need others to reflect
back to them what they can improve on, not directly, just by
association. They need people to have their back and push forward *with* them, not *for* them.

So how do *you* learn to learn like a hacker?

Technically, it's not that difficult. Just do what humans have always
done, that is, until their parents/school/religion and other power and
control systems stepped in and shut down their natural curiosity
"beating their creativity out of them" (Robinson) forcefully replacing
it with fear and subservience. Just asking "why" in front of the wrong
people can get you locked up for life, or fast-tracked to "reformation."

But somehow, "hackers" from the dawn of time have continued to challenge
the status quo, to ask "why", to learn, and to speak truth to power. And
thank God they did. Now we live in a time were almost anyone can take
control of their own learning.

Why all the philosophy talk?

Because the real challenge to learning is overcoming a lifetime of
institutionalized fear mongering that has nothing to do with your
ability to learn. We are taught that leaning isn't our job, that it for
the teacher to do who will then "deposit" (Friere) that learning into
our brains for us. If everyone was encouraged to learn on their own,
without an institution decided what they should learn, we wouldn't even
need the "educational" systems we have today. Socrates dared to prove it
and they killed him for it.

From the first time you were told that "to listen and not be heard" or
"we don't need to know why" or "I'll *tell* you what you need to know"
or "of course, everyone *must* go to college" you have fought to have
the courage to look something up on the Internet during a class, afraid
someone would discover your dirty-little secret: you actually don't mind
looking up answers, doing your own research, and learning on your own.
But, just being here means you are already on your way, whether or not
you continue with the Boost or not. You're the one in control.

The reason teachers make almost nothing in America is because their
occupation is not to educate anyone, it's to repress everyone just
enough to keep them good little potential employees under the guise of
"education." 

Seriously, how much did you *actual* learn in school? Obviously, there
are significant exceptions, but the rule is, not much, but we'll never
know because they also control every "assessment" measuring system we
have in place to even know. In fact, often the learning that happens
within a school's walls is happening *in spite* of the school itself.
It's the community of people around you, facilitating and improving
everyone's learning experience organically. It's the people, peers, and
atmosphere. You know it when you experience it, all you want to do is
learn and you almost can't even explain why. 

> ðŸ’¬
> It's that very feeling that I've always tried to foster on rwxrob.tv.

The good news is that you don't need permission to learn, to ask
questions, to seek your own answers, and to share them with *whomever
you want*! That is the true glory of our time. 

We might be inundated with populist, moronic fears, but we can also use
those same means of communication to share our *true* learning with one
another, to test each other in conversation and collaborative
exploration. We live in the greatest age of learning the Earth has every
known and yet it hardly seems like it. 

Now is the time to take back the power of learning, of self-learning, to
rise up as an amorphous autodidactic nation committing to raising up
everyone willing to put in the time and energy to learn. The learning
revolution is already here, it never ended. It has been happening since the very beginning. The question is, will you join it?

Start now by doing more RWX during your learning.

Hackers do.

Next mission:

* Grok the RWX Method and Start Practicing It

Related:

* [20210831193812](/20210831193812/) Story: The Snarky Kid Who Googled the Answer and Won
* Out of Their Minds, Sir Ken Robinson
* Pedagogy of the Oppressed, Paulo Friere
* The RWX Method by Rob Muhlestein

Tags:

    #hacking #education #oppression #learning #pedagogy #creativity
