# Existence is About Producing Harmony

I used to think existence was about doing what a greater, wiser divine
being told me to do. Then, I believed it was about reducing the total
amount of human suffering in the world. But, honestly, age is showing me
that existence is really about harmony, equanimity.

There's a reason that humans respond to resonance so powerfully. It's
the basis of all music, of art more generally (color and form are just
harmonic light waves). All of it produces a state where the person
experiencing it enjoys the harmony of synchronicity, seemingly random
events that aren't random at all.

Existence isn't about striving and achieving. It is about discovering
and observing and realizing what our part in that existence is such that
it brings harmony to the Universe, like every individual instrument in
an orchestra combines to produce the greatest of all music produced by
humans to date.

Every minute of every day should be focused on releasing ourselves to
the flow and harmony of the moment, our minds and hearts tuning to the
vibrations all around us that go far beyond the physical. If we are
quiet and listen, we will hear it, the music leading us on our path. But
so much of life is there to distract and drown out that divine sound.

This isn't some "new age" shit, it's the nature of existence, it's
scientific, and yes, it means that our resonance is no more significant
than that of a quark, that meaning is a human construct. Still we can
accept that and find joy in the here and now, no matter what our
circumstance. There is cause for optimism as we realize this nature of
existence and help others to arrive at their own understanding for
themselves. It requires letting go of ego, fear, and judgement,
something I find so very hard. I cling to tightly, bad people, good
people, I let that control my existence, my reality, my presence when
instead letting go and listening to the deep harmonic symphony of the
Universe is far more important, pleasurable, and oh so right.
