# Liam Tung from ZDNet is a Fucking Dumb Ass

Would Gilfoyle answer the Stack Exchange 'Developer' Survey?

FUCK NO!

I'm so tired of ZDNet. They never present the facts and clearly have
technology and political biases they don't even try to hide. The most
embarrassing is their avid Rust fandom fetish. They never present actual
adoption statistics and usage, but they will put absolute bullshit in
their click-bait, juvenile, non-writing. They even have the balls to
claim Rust has a chance in the Linux kernel despite the *actual*
response from Linus Torvalds, which I'm sure their authors never even
read (TL;DR and all).

The most recent disaster is [this shit article] claiming to be an
authoritative measure of what languages "developers" love the most
without even mentioning that this absolute garbage comes from the
world's leader of super popular bad information, Stack Exchange.

Imagine, if you will, the type of person who stops their workday.

"Hey, I think I'll respond to this complete waste of my time (and my
employer's money) to make sure the recently bought-out Stack Exchange
continues to provide critical scientific and statistical data to its
readership." 

Now imagine the most senior developers you know across the field, you
know, not just web developers, the people who *actually* matter keeping
all the infrastructure running and building out the networks and systems
all that shitty JavaScript runs on. Do you see, in your mind's eye, that
these Gilfoyles are putting down their projects to respond to these
Stack Exchange surveys?

FUCK NO!

If you think they do, you're a bigger fucking moron than Liam Tung, who
actually chose do the most irresponsible thing a tech blogger can do,
write hyperbole for money publicly. 

Hey Liam, yeah you, idiot, why do you think C and Go and even Erlang and
Haskell have almost no representation? Could it possibly be the sample
size and script-kiddy nature of the respondents? Here's a better title:

*Shitty Developers with Time to Take Stack Exchange Surveys (and Know
What Stack Exchange Even Is) Reveal Their Massive Internal Lack of
Confidence Wishing One Day They Could Be Good Enough to Code Clojure and
Rust and Instead Only Reveal the Why No One Should Ever Read ZDNet and
Stack Exchange and Importance of Unsexy Languages to Produce Real Work
and Value*

Sorry ZDNet, I have a real job.

[this shit article]: <https://www.zdnet.com/article/developers-reveal-their-most-loved-programming-language-and-the-ones-they-dread-using/>

