# Thankful for So Many Harmonic Moments with So Many

I'm feeling overwhelmed tonight while just lying sleepless in bed by the
number of amazing people I've been able to come to know in my life, from
all the way back. I find myself picturing their faces, some imagined,
some faintly remembered, some in the other room. All smiling during a
good memory. Sometimes when I wonder what it's all about that's the one
truth that burns through me like radio waves. These people I've known,
family, friends, teachers, peers, strangers, lovers, all of them. I take
something away from every single one.

The other day after watching the Quantum Mechanics documentary for the
second time everything just fell into place for me. I understood how
waves behave, some cancel each other out, some combine to create greater
peaks, many waves all a part of different frequencies and wave lengths.
It sounds cliche, but there is no better way for me to imagine what is
happening inside when I think of all those people and having been in
sync with them, for a moment, before other waves of different
frequencies disrupt the harmonics. Memories seem like moments of
harmonics, of coincidental waves combining. Some memories feel like they
were on completely different frequencies, as if I tuned into a different
life entirely, on many occasions. 

Looking back sometimes I cannot believe how radically different so many
different phases of my life have been. Every one felt no less
significant than another, but looking back sometimes it is like trying
to remember a tune you've forgotten, but still feel deeply when you hear
it. And when I lay awake sometimes I feel like some part of me clicks
through the frequencies like changing channels or turning the dial on an
old radio. For a brief moment *everything* floods back, all the positive
moments where I connected on a level somehow some part of me will never
forget. 

Then, the next morning it passes, as if I can't get the reception any
longer. But I know at any random moment, while lying sleepless at night,
or running with my eyes closed under a warm sun, or floating on the
gentle waves at sunset on my board, that the frequencies will come back,
clear as ever filling me with such immense joy I have to believe that is
what Heaven must be, nothing but a combination of every positive moment
combined in one memory that is all memories combined, like the quantum
field that is both no where and everywhere, but manifests as a single,
perceivable individual. 

Every time I have one of these moments I'm overwhelmed with one thought:
how could I ever express my gratitude to these people, many of whom
have passed or out of touch. And the answer is always, what will I do
with my time here right now? I can do better in this moment right now.
That's how. "The powerful play goes on. What will my verse be?"

There is so much more going on than random chaos. These moments are
objective proof, to me.

Tags:

    #memories #sappy #existence
