# Adventure Cycling Associate routes are full of shit

Seriously, I watched three cyclists nearly die several times coming up 95 in Idaho through construction and roads with no shoulder and logging trucks flying by at 45 mph who were almost proud of seeing how close they could come to them. Those women had just slogged up a major incline in 90+ heat with traffic the entire time. I don't know who's idea of "adventure" that is, but it isn't mine. I'd rather take my chances with bears and misjudging my resupplies than give myself over the whims of a bunch of underpaid, overworked truckers dedicated to stripping the land of its natural resources.

I saw another cyclist nearly get killed crossing the "intercoastal bridge" on the Southern Tier route that they recommend with done "in the very early morning since there is no shoulder, at all". This is a 60 mph highway bridge with no shoulder at all, and it is required to complete that route. No. Fucking. Way.

A good friend followed the Pacific Trail route from ACA and is now permanently mentally impaired from head injuries when a RV swiped him right off the road safe in is shoulder. It is such a tragedy because he was so dedicated to the land and celebrating it.

Perhaps once upon a time when America was filled with hippies and cars that would fall apart if they went faster than 55 mph, and few people actually drove all these road ways cycling on these "routes" was feasible. Nowadays, telling people that these same routes are not the death-traps that they are is downright irresponsible, besides, the Ride with GPS route equivalents from Sarah Swallow and others are far better than the crap ACA is putting out. May this will change, but I doubt it. The ACA needs to move out of its boomer mentality and into what it means to stay alive and enjoy cycling in 2024. I wish I could get every dime I've ever given them back. Their maps are out of date, inaccurate, hard to read, and just not worth it at all.
