# Sucks to have grown up in the Mormon cult

I lost my freedom to do what I *actually* wanted as soon as I was born into a Mormon cult family. The Mormons have fucking DESTROYED my life! This is why the dream of complete and unaccountable freedom to do whatever the fuck I want is such a big part of my bucket list. It's also the reason I swear and rage more than most rational people. Taking back my life and doing whatever I want is the biggest FUCK YOU I can think of to all those who controlled and stole my family and money all those years, including pedophile "leaders" like my former Bishop and "advocate" for my excommunication [Richard Dennis Johnson arrested for attempting to have homosexual sex with a minor who took private confessions from my sons](https://www.wsoctv.com/news/local/police-mooresville-man-busted-child-sex-sting/334803464/). I paid 10% of my income every fucking year for 42 years to that FUCKING CULT! I should be legally enabled to sue their asses for it, but not in America. I can't think about it too long or I start wanting to do bad things. Obviously, they DIDN'T GIVE A SHIT and did horrible things anyway.

I'm really jealous of independently wealthy people and those with zero financial responsibilities to anyone. I've said many times I regret being forced to choose a life that completely and totally prevents me from ever quitting my job, ever. I made decisions when I was young based on what I was told god wanted. I was forced to go on an expensive mission at my family's expense and then to get married and make babies. If I didn't I was called a "menace to society" and would never get into "the top level of Heaven". I'm not making that shit up.  I consider the word "forced" to be absolutely accurate. My choice was to entirely leave the Mormons or to comply. I complied and I'm still paying the fucking price for it, literally.

>  The “menace to society” sentiment is one that weighs on many LDS singles. In fact, in a 1996 interview with 60 Minutes, All-Pro quarterback Steve Young used the famous quote in an attempt to describe what it’s like to be a 34-year-old single Mormon: “You want to talk about the pressure I feel? Brigham Young once said . . . that anyone over 27 years of age that’s not married is a menace to society. So here’s my [great-great-great] grandfather telling me to get with it. You don’t think I feel the pressure? I guarantee it.”


