# Windows WSL2 is the Best Linux Desktop of 2022

> ðŸ¤” Sat 19 Feb 2022 01:50:42 AM EST
> I was so fucking wrong about this. WSL2 is still great for some
> specific circumstances, but running a headless Ubuntu Linux server
> with 2 GB RAM and 2 Cores kicks WSL2's ass. WSL2 becomes unbearably
> slow to a fast terminal user to the point of being worse than a remote
> connection to someone in China from New York.

* [20220211021943](/20220211021943/) Weird Permissions Error in WSL2
* [20220219042322](/20220219042322/) Things WSL2 Can Do That Local VM Cannot
* [20220219043128](/20220219043128/) Things Local VM Can Do That WSL2 Cannot

----

I've become a huge Windows 10 19044 WSL2 fan after spending a few hours
of prayer and work migrating off of the gawd-awful PopOS distro.

I know. I know. I've been talking shit about WSL2 all year and praising
PopOS for all of 2020, mostly because of this horrible Cisco Anyconnect
VPN issue that has been open for four years and prevents any WSL2 user
from connecting to their VPN from WSL2 while at work.

Here's the deal: things change --- especially in tech.

I'm very surprised to say that I will likely never use a Linux Desktop
OS ever again.  Microsoft has finally done it. WSL2 is almost everything
I thought it could be when it first came out, fast and seamless, with
tight integrations with other VM and container software that just work
harmoniously. It seems like everyone is focused on getting their
products to work with WSL2 and it is paying off big time. And why
wouldn't they? MS Windows is the undisputed king of enterprise desktop
operating systems, like it or not. And now all those tech workers get
Linux, for free. That is a *huge* win for any CTO.

I can't believe I just typed those words. I really can't.

Here's the reality. I feel like I've been released from Linux desktop
prison since making this change.  I have been an avid Linux desktop user
since the year 1997. No joke.  Most of that time I have *hated* the
Windows desktop experience. For an old school MS hater to actual switch
to MS as my *Linux* daily driver is a big fucking deal. I'm honestly
still very incredulous and dumb-founded by all this alternate reality.
But I am forced to objectively admit that in January 2022, Microsoft has
managed to produce the most practical and efficient Linux desktop on the
planet.

What makes me say that?

First of all, PopOS is an absolute joke in comparision. The frequent
bugs and crashes are the reason I considered this migration off of it.
And with System76 announcing it is going to spent time and money
creating its own desktop in Rust from scratch I don't want anything to
do with that idiotic company. 

My gut was right. The horrible experience I had in 2013 buying a hugely
overpriced laptop that I had to return and pay a \$70 restocking fee was
the omen I needed to remember before every buying anything from that
company again, no matter how pretty those chassis are.  

Mark my words, System76 is a company that is going to fail hard, really
hard.  Sell your stock if you have any. They don't bring anything new to
market that anyone really needs (at least not anyone that matters). And
the few who do buy their products are just absolute fools for paying
those obscene prices. Nothing says "stupid" more than paying way too
much money for a *Linux* system. It's like you missed the whole fucking
point of Linux in the first place. 

To be fair, PopOS didn't have any of those problems in 2020, but since
their last upgrade PopOS is far less stable than any Windows I have ever
used. Don't believe me? Go ask Linus Tech Tips what he thinks of PopOS.

As I said, I cannot believe I actually am writing those words. But
I cannot deny them.

Who would think that Microsoft would be at the very core of the entire
Linux and cloud-native revolution, but they are. he CNCF is literally
a sub-organization of the Linux Foundation, and Microsoft is a strong,
active participant. Linux will dominate enterprise IT for the
fore-seeable future and Microsoft was smart enough to see this and act
on it. *That's* what matters.  Linux containers, virtual machines,
servers, and embedded devices all being developed on mostly Windows
desktop systems.

Linux on the desktop has it's cute charm and appeal as being something
different, but it is completely irrelevant when it comes to getting real
work done with Linux. People who argue over the best window manager for
Linux are completely missing the point. Those irrelevant people can
scwabble over stupid shit while the rest of us engineers and developers
kick ass and occasionally take a break to play a game on the best gaming
platform the world has ever known (yes, Windows). Gaming on Linux is
a fucking joke by comparison.

Why did I change my mind so strongly?

My jaw literally dropped as I experienced the current WSL2 integration
with Rancher Desktop, Vagrant, VirtualBox, and VMware *without a single
problem or conflict.* Luckily, I don't need Cisco Anyconnect on my
personal PC (like I do at work). That remains the single biggest problem
with WSL2 in general, but I'm glad to know the Rancher team is aware of
it and working on a fix that is modeled after the same fix that is
already in Docker Desktop (which I'll never use again after this week
now that it is proprietary and inferior to Rancher Desktop for
everything that matters *except* Anyconnect fixes)).

Windows desktop is so much better than PopOS it's actually rather
ridiculous.  Everything just works. The Super/Windows key searches as
expected, the menu's don't randomly disappear and stop rendering the
font, there's no compatibility problems or extra installation steps.
Shit just works. 

I almost can't believe it. I was so sure WSL2 would crap out when
combined with a running VirtualBox and/or VMware and Vagrant. Instead,
Vagrant is *very* aware of WSL2 and leverages it fully. As crusty and
old as Vagrant is, they clearly put a priority on integration with WSL2.
Why? Because Hashicorp obviously knows that if it wants market share it
needs to cater to the biggest Linux desktop distribution in history:
Windows with WSL2.

It's just so amazing. You cannot even tell this stuff *isn't* Linux. And
how could you. It *is* Linux. Smooth, pristine, lightning fast Linux.

"So what about the Boost?"

All my foolish thoughts about attracting people to the Boost with the
eye candy that is graphic Kali Linux desktop have evaporated. It is
obvious to me now that Windows 10 (as of today) with WSL2, is the most
important Linux anyone hoping to become serious as an infrastructure
engineer or security analyst should ever learn.  

Offensive Security, the most influential company in the cybersecurity
space, agrees. You *must* have Windows 10 with VMware Workstation Pro to
even take the course and certification exam for the OSEE. 

But that's not the only Windows-only company. SolidWorks, arguably the
best 3D modeling software for makers and engineers, doesn't even run on
anything *but* Windows. Now that Linux and Windows are side by side you
can do all the forensics and hacking and embedded engineering then take
a break to enjoy the amazing 3D art in the Overwatch maps.

Hell, I just realized I can actually use my Adobe subscription again.
OMG!

Speaking of games, streaming, and art. As gaming and personal
broadcasting continues to grow 60% per year, Microsoft Windows will
continue to dominate the market for professional and personal desktop
workstations. If you consider Microsoft's work with virtual worlds and
3D you'd have to really try hard to deny this reality. *Modern*
Microsoft is going to dominate the market for these workhorse computing
devices for the foreseeable future because the demand for this stuff is
going to drive it. The combination of personal and professional
requirements into one moster rig used by mostly remote workers is the
future, and Microsoft with WSL2 is really the only provider for that
demand.

I have to laugh at the Linux gaming people a little bit because they are
so content to waste countless hours fucking with shit to get a game that
takes me five minutes to load and run without any problems on Windows.
I guess it is their form of a hobby, when they aren't reading the Arch
wiki or collecting NFTs, and I suppose getting games to work on Linux is
more educational than actually playing a game I suppose. Still, not
worth my time.

What about Apple?

What about them? They are doing their normal stupid shit and being edgy
and different for not practical reason at all. Hey, remember when they
switched to PowerPC and tanked the company? Then they announced putting
Intel chips again and recovered. Yeah, that.

Apple's bet on the M1 is simply stupid. Sure people will use it, but not
gamers, and not *most* workers. Apple has never really cared about the
gaming market at all (despite their lies at conventions while Microsoft
fucking buys Blizzard for \$70 billion dollars).  Microsoft is the
closest to NVIDIA, the most significant company of our time given the
emphasis on gaming, machine learning, and block-chain.

I'll still use my two Macbook Pros, my own for writing, sound
engineering, and IRL streaming, and my work's for most remote work
stuff. It will be good to stay current on desktop Windows *and* Mac
since 90% of all employees will be using one or the other and preparing
them to be the most effective is a high priority for me. 
