# Which keyboard do you use?

Whichever I damn well please! ;)

I'm so tired of being judged by my keyboard selection. So I'm
telling you that now before I tell you.

Let's start by considering who actually has the greatest need for
maximum typing speed in the world. Here's a hint. It ain't coders and
gamers. Yeah, it's writers.

So what keyboards do writers use?

Here's another hint. It doesn't glow with LED hues and make
enough noise to drive any normal person to a level of insanity calling
them from inside to track you down and beat you to a bloody pulp with
the damn thing. (I fucking HATE keyboard noise.)

Ding, ding, ding! You guessed it. 

The now "classic" 52-key (yes I use ever one of those number pad keys)
chicklet keyboard from, wait for it, Apple Computer Company. I own about
16 of them (left over from a school I ran).

I know. I know. I *despise* Apple.

But there is simply no keyboard more silent, more ergonomic, and faster
for most regular typing demands than this beautifully ugly aluminum
white thing. In fact, it is the only white colored thing within three
feet anything at my workstation (which I admittedly hate, but cannot
find a "dark mode" equivalent in any knock off I've tried).

The modern keyboard from Apple prompted a class action lawsuit. They are
horrible, loud and prone to utter destruction from the smallest bit of
corn chip. I know, I have a shitty Macbook Pro that I would love to
unload but can't now because this. Thank God it still has an escape key
though.

But really that shouldn't matter.

Speaking of the escape key. I don't use it. I use `Control-[` and have
had international techies tell me they actually prefer American keyboard
layouts just so they can have that and have the `|` key in expected
place.

There. Laugh all you want, gamers. My keyboard of choice is a Mac. (108
is my top on Nitrotype, btw). If you actually care about your hands, you
will get off those noise, beastly mechanical keyboards as soon as
possible. I predict a wave of all kinds of ergonomic, chronic conditions
in about 20 years. We already tried these, people. That's where the low
profile came from. But none of y'all remember so you are making the same
mistake we made in the 80s that led to the slim keyboards of the
90s. I know because I personally knew people who had to wear a brace
constantly just from using their horrible IBM keyboards.

But y'all are gonna do what you want anyway. You have been warned.

Oh yeah, split keyboards are useless pieces of wacky shit that "appeal
to a certain type of person who also is inclined to wear five-finger
shoes" (a great quote from green_jenny on Twitch ).

Oh wait, there actually may be evidence to the contrary! Looks like
split keyboards might be better. I maintain my hypothesis that low
profile, low travel keyboards reduce the muscle strain that was the
major cause of those studies. None of them includes studies with
low-profile keyboards. Only the shitty mechanical ones. And yeah, I
agree, a split keyboard beast like that would obviously be better given
the travel and muscles required to activate the keys. Not so with a
low-profile, low-travel, writer-preferred Apple keyboard).

* <https://www.researchgate.net/publication/23157799_The_Split_Keyboard_An_Ergonomics_Success_Story> 
