# GitHub, Your Best Home on the Web

Once upon a time I was conflicted about [GitLab Versus GitHub][vs]. Not any
more. GitHub is the *only* viable option for people with the broadest
needs. In fact, giving others your GitHub address is *more* important
than giving them any other customized web site address --- yes, even if
you are a graphic designer. Everything can be linked from GitHub and
people can follow you on GitHub just like any other social media
service, but unlike LinkedIn your followers get to see your work, not a
bunch of motivational posters and what they ate for dinner. GitHub's
slogan has always been "the social media site for developers" but you
don't have to be a developer to benefit. In fact, the [Zettelkasten on
GitHub](/20210502004642) makes this value apply to *anyone* who writes
anything.

[vs]: <https://www.youtube.com/c/rwxrob/search?query=github>

Even if you aren't a technologist, GitHub could quite possibly still be
the most important Web service you will ever have an account on.

Why?

Because GitHub can host *anything* that matters in a way that no other
service can provide. People using Google docs, Dropbox (and all the
other variations of such things) are just plain stupid for not using
GitHub instead. GitHub provides granular history and version control
that is build for professionals, and even though Microsoft might not be
entirely trustworthy, you can be sure they aren't marketing to you based
on what they mine out of your private repos --- especially if you
encrypt that data before storing it there.

The only reason *not* to use GitHub if you need to store *lots* of big
files (videos, large images, etc.)

I know a lot of mainstream people who are going to complain about the
complexity of using GitHub. But usually none of them have tried it. (My
wife would be one of those.) Sadly, most of these people have *no*
backup strategy at all (also like my wife). GitHub lets you literally
drag and drop content into any repo and has a very easy to use interface
for GUI users as well as the most powerful command line tool available
for such things.

