# A Hacker's Approach to IT Architecture and Homelab

I'm a hacker at heart, I always have been. And today I'm realizing how
much this is tainting my ability to watch other streams and videos from
people in the IT world who are focused on cloud IT stuff and
"infrastructure as code".

I see myself in them sometimes, the part of me that wants to prepare
people for work in the enterprise, to be empowered by full-time
employment to do other things that matter far more.

But mostly I realize that being a hacker means that if something is just
stupid architecture for what I want to accomplish that I can hack it to
do what I want without guilt, that I can even invent something that is
better that what the whole world is using for my purposes. That's the
power of having my own home lab and having Go coding skills mastered
(for anyone). It's the only reason that I code, at all, I don't enjoy
coding. I enjoy making shit that is better than other shit.

What am I going to do with my home lab? Well, definitely nothing that I
would waste time putting into some cloud service somewhere, where
everything is at the whims of people making decisions in their interests
and not mine.

This means that things like Terraform and Ansible and Vagrant are just
completely unnecessary when ssh certs and a good bash script will do
what I need. In fact, that is more of the hacker's way to do it anyway.
Being a hacker means using the least amount of unnecessary technology,
making do with what you have, and when you don't have something, making
your own single binary root kit that you can install with a backdoor and
have it do anything you want. That's what I mean by approaching my
homelab and everything I do off the work clock as a hacker would. I
don't need to fucking apologize to myself or anyone else for making the
simpler decision, for not using Red Hat, for not using Ansible, for not
creating wasteful VMs for everything and just using hardware that I keep
managed myself in a way that is far simpler and more efficient than any
of the "standard" ways.
