# Weekly Streaming Schedule

<https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=ieb0jjumeapap9sjlogvj6agtc%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FNew_York>

**News** covers the news of the community and industry for the week.
It's usually about an hour long and followed by an *AMA* session.

**AMA** is a free time that will be recorded and saved to
YouTube as a live session as-is (no editing). You can ask anything that
is about or contained in any of the Beginner Boost content. I normally
have both mic and camera on for it.

**Colearning Cloud-Native and Kubernetes** is a personal learning stream
where I just study the stuff I need for certification in CKAD, CKA, and
CKS, which I hope to complete by July 2022. Join to study with me, to
help me, or to just laugh at my cloud-native noob-ness. I have no
problem the mistakes and fails and learning opportunities I have had
along the way. (I'm currently employed as an Infrastructure Engineer
working with an HPC cluster and deploying applications like JupyterHub
to it.) I only have mic on for these sessions.

**Go Programming** is me keeping up with Go programming
(which my current job doesn't officially require even though I could
probably make a lot more money as a full-time Go developer). Use it or
lose it, they say. I'll be working on libraries that are needed for the
(eventual) `mim zet` port to Go, CmdBox, and my other utilities.

**Bash Scripting** is me writing and updating bash code that I maintain
publicly, mostly `zet`, `clip`, `snip`, `twitter`, `yt`, `twitch` and a
few others these days.

**Coworking** is me doing my day job, sometimes on screen, sometimes
not. I don't slow down to answer questions during these times, but if
you want to watch I'm here.

**Writing** is me writing usually stuff for the Open Credential Merit
System that I started. This includes content that was once in Beginner
Boost and "Boost Badges" and is not only writing, but often the creation
of diagrams and other visual aides to help get through all the confusing
paths one can choose. Eventually, I'll be writing other content during
this time. I write a lot during the day randomly as well, which you can
follow in my Twitter or Twitch feed.

Tags:

    #logistics #schedule #streaming
