# QCA takes to much energy

I do this all the time, add stuff like QCA to the schedule, and then I resent it because it takes up too much time and my health, job, family suffer. I'm not the only streamer with these problems. In fact, most streamers who actually have *real* lives that don't revolve around streaming face these same cycles. They frequently come on all hot and then fade off into oblivion. (I can thing of five who have off the top of my head right now.) 

I never want to be one of these streamers. I want to create a sustainable schedule that I can maintain forever, even if it means that viewers go without the content they might want me to spend time on. After all, I only have 100 subs and very few people *really* support the stream in any significant way. I love my community dearly, but most of them have no money and just want to suck as much learning out of me that they can for free without giving anything back to me (or anyone else). I don't judge. If that is what they have to do at the moment, fine. But, this is actually the main reason I have an actual job besides streaming. I have shit to do that I'm getting paid very generously to do. So doing anything that would distract from that is just plain dishonest.

All of that ranting is to justify the following statement: no more QCA, no more Boosts, no more tech streaming unless I am coding something I want or need. People can ask me questions when I'm gaming, or cycling, or coworking and taking a break. And if there is a question I get a lot, I'll make a video about that question and add a command for it. That's it.

My time and charitable contribution to the world is much better when I *produce* sustainable content and code. In fact, my GitHub contributions are double that from Twitch. People want the things I make, not so much an opportunity to talk to me or ask me questions. They want a Udemy/YouTube/book version of the Boost above the hand-holding live sessions; they want my `zet` command; they want Bonzai; they want PEGN. These are the *only* things I should be spending time on outside of my job, my health, my family, and enough recreation to stay sane.

So QCA will still be a playlist, but it won't be a *show*.
