# InfoWorld Article Bashing Kubernetes On-Prem is Wrong

I've come to expect completely inaccurate writing from InfoWorld, which
is almost as bad at ZDNet. I cannot believe people read and believe this
shit. People are so gullible. They actually think that stuff they read in
InfoWorld is completely free of bias and couldn't possibly be influenced
by the powerful corporate interests at play, after all, no one makes
money if everyone does their own Kubernetes and people make it easy for
them. You know, the same reason the single more recommended Kubernetes
tutorial I have heard about is the completely irrelevant "Kubernetes the
Hard Way" from Kelsey Hightower which tells you on the first page that
you need to pay \$5/day just to use the Google Cloud Platform that the
entire tutorial completely depends on.

Or how about the quote from Joe Beda, cofounder (and chief sales person)
for VMware, as irrelevant as UNIX SCO in the cloud-native world at this
point --- especially Tanzu (pfffhahaha, I couldn't help it). Or how
about Deepak Singh, VP or AWS, or Brendan Burns, CVP for Azure. What a
perfectly unbiased group of people to choose to base your article on.
Really people, are you this fucking stupid not to see through this? They
do not care about you. They want your money. Shills like this are not
people you should interview, InfoWorld, how about interviewing people
from actual companies facing this challenges instead of the vendors
paying you under the table to give them a "influencer" platform akin to
the Fyre festival (don't worry, no one is going to be doing six years in
a Federal prison here, they are just nice white lies, that will cost
companies billions to fix later).

I wish they had used bold for the statement: "Bloomberg still runs about
80% of its Kubernetes workloads on-premises, and it has invested heavily
in developing the in-house skills to reliably manage that environment
and an internal developer platform on top of it." The truth is, that
competitive advantage remains the on-prem reality it has always been,
not unlike 3D animation shops who create their own proprietary software,
such is the case for large-scale cloud-native applications ---
especially in the high-performance and machine learning space (you know,
where everything is fucking headed).

The fact is I work for a very big company that would just laugh at such
things. They are motivated, for all the right reasons, to do stuff
on-prem and in house, mostly because they have specific high-performance
computing needs that GKE can't even dream of providing, yet.

So for this stupid article to claim that "no one wants to manage
Kubernetes" is just categorically wrong. Just ask the authors of the
Wall Street Journal (a much more reputable source, btw) article about
the inability to find enough people, because companies still also want
the option to not depend on one of three providers, a world-scenario
that is downright dangerous for humanity. But the real problem is
not having enough people who can do it. 

Centralization is dangerous and bad for humanity, not just because it is
fucking insecure (and often prohibited by large enterprises because of
it) but because of lock-in and the massive central points of failure
such centralization creates. Imagine if all the power in the entire
world was provided by only three companies. Having skills for at least
large organizations to fulfill their specific, on-prem Kubernetes needs
is of paramount importance for a sustainable future. Just because it is
hard to find engineers who understand the power grid is no reason to
consider such consolidations. We should be encouraging turn-key, on-prem
solutions that share a common skill set and work to reduce the
complexity of those solutions, not fucking lock someone into a remotely
managed, subscription service. They only people who benefit from that
are the monopolists pushing it in filthy rags like InfoWorld like
Oxycontin drug reps.

Related:

* <https://www.infoworld.com/article/3614850/no-one-wants-to-manage-kubernetes-anymore.html>
* <https://www.wsj.com/articles/lack-of-engineers-keeping-some-firms-out-of-the-cloud-11633512602>
