# Just What Should I Save on YouTube?

Now that I have re-activated VODs on Twitch (for all the right reasons)
I wonder what I should save and send to YouTube.

**VODs are deleted after 60 days.** This is a good thing. Most live
content is probably best to just die/expire given the rate of change in
the industry. It is better to have new content, or to force new answers
to the same questions, than to have outdated content and opinions. It's
actually a good thing to re-answer the same question again every 60
days.

**Stream screw ups are eventually cleaned up without extra effort.**
This is important because when doing IRL streams you might end up with
half-a-dozen broken VODs that can just be deleted. But since Twitch VODs
are deleted automatically I can just leave them to eventually be cleaned
up.

**Good Morning streams are a relevant summary.** They are short, capture
thoughts and direction without too many details. They serve as a log of
learning and changes to opinions as well as events. These are easy to
publish and I've created a `morning` shortcut command to setup the
zettelcasts.

**Topical responses to specific questions are tied to a zettel.** This
allows the video to be remade and the zettel re-written over time. These
are short and usually to the point and therefore should remain. These
are also the principle form of content for related Boost videos.

**I already have Twitter notifications going out** when I change the
topic allowing people to pick up on it. The Knowledge Fellowship is also
notifying when I start streaming.

**Have to stop and start stream to get consistency in VODs.** Before I
would just leave it running. But these days, I always make a break in
the stream on purpose to force the creation of a new VOD.

Related:

* [20211109085024](/20211109085024/) Twitch Mic-Only VODs Turned Back On
* [20211109150400](/20211109150400/) Send Only Mic to Twitch VODS (no music) with OBS

Tags:

    #streaming #tips #twitch #youtube
