# Those quiet moments only she and I will remember

Watching Solid Gold (of all things) and the song *Love Lift Us Up Where We Belong* came on. I'd completely forgotten about this song. I was flooded with vibrant memories swaying with Bonnie. I remember her cute grin being kind of embarrassed trying to keep her dress from sliding down her buxom body. She looked magical in it, wearing my corsage. She'd asked me to the Sadie Hawkins dance and was a few grades under me. She was a little bashful for someone known to be very gregarious. It was such a fun night. She was hilarious, had me laughing all evening. It wasn't part of any long-term relationship, or even *true* love. But it is something I will *never* forget.

After a lot of dancing and sweating, with all the great fragrances in the air (I think Sadie Hawkins was in the Spring), we would run around outside the cotillion at the venue someplace in downtown Salt Lake city, being giddy and silly, just enjoying the warm night, the stars, the ambiance, and everything positive the 80s had to offer. I remember we found ourselves in a quiet corner with perfect light, near a stone-carved chair but not sitting on it, and mood lighting like something out of an 80s movie. I kissed her. It was innocent. My body flooded with dopamine and adrenalin, but not passion. It was unlike any kiss up to that point. I think it was because of the atmosphere and expectations. Neither of us was trying to "make out" with the other. It was as if that moment couldn't be touched or even tainted by passion. It wasn't my first kiss, it wasn't even love, but something about that night made it so incredibly powerful.

Something about a random Solid Gold Countdown YouTube video at 2:30 am on a Monday morning pulled that memory out of me more than four decades later, and to great effect. It completely overwhelmed me emotionally. I was flooded with the truth that I have so much to be grateful for, so many memories that so many wouldn't even believe now if I told them. But no one has to believe them. I know they are real and so does Bonnie. I have no pictures, no proof, no evidence, just an amazing quiet moment that she and I will share, forever. I sincerely hope *everyone* gets a chance to have these sorts of memories to remember later. Music does it to me. Music is life, and life is one memory to the next. Sometimes I forget, and music takes me back. I thank whatever higher power is in charge for that tonight. It makes me want to live life even more fully.


