# IBM "Creative Destruction" is Working, Learn Red Hat

I read a really fascinating article about all the radical changes to my
former employer (IBM) since 2019 beginning with the acquisition of Red
Hat. The article title says it all: "Red Hat is The New IBM" They're not
wrong.

Let me just say it. I fucking hate Red Hat. But, my preferences for a
Linux distro have nothing to do with the reality that Red Hat Linux is
THE enterprise Linux distro, period. OpenShift is absolute shit as is
`podman`. Doesn't matter. It's at least 50% of the Kubernetes market. My
SME at TEK is constantly talking about Red Hat. My recruiter is
constantly asking if I know anyone for "this OpenShift position that
pays more than \$160K." Just search for yourself on Indeed. You'll see.
RedHat is the king of on-prem enterprise Linux, hands down.

Why do you care?

Because those who fail to be able to use and manage Red Hat Linux
effectively will have no place in enterprise infrastructure engineering
jobs. That's the reason I ran Fedora as my desktop OS while at IBM for
over 12 years. I created several RPMs from scratch and was intimately
familiar with Red Hat's particular quirks and strengths. I fucking hated
it. I was a huge Debian fan. But, not having that knowledge today is
literally a career killer if you want to work for 90% of the Fortune 500
or any of the companies that support them. I don't make these rules. I
just report them.

Thankfully, today I'm working in a job that requires I know vanilla
Kubernetes. I'm not doing any work with package updates and Linux
administration (other than my own systems at home). And I plan on
staying in this space for a while, writing operations and security
software for any Linux focused on cloud native engineering, but I'm
going to use Red Hat (probably Rocky) for all my VMs to build my own
clusters on. By the way, this is yet another reason not to use Minikube
or Kind for anything but trivial Kubernetes work and testing. It also
lights a fire under my ass to get `fluff` finished (now that Bonzai is,
more or less, complete).

* Red Hat Is The New IBM  
  https://www.ibtimes.com/red-hat-new-ibm-3479562

* IBM and Red Hat to Help Modernize U.S. Department of Education\'s G5 Grants Management System  
  https://finance.yahoo.com/news/ibm-red-hat-help-modernize-110000709.html

* [20220421145024](/20220421145024/) Pick Better Sources of Tech Information

    #redhat #ibm #linux #research
