# Linux and Cloud-Native *Feel* Like Hacking

It struck me today that what I really love about Linux and cloud-native
stuff is that feeling of hacking something, after all, the process of
hacking is learning through trial and error what will and won't work and
then exploiting that. 

The difference is that instead of "exploiting" you are deploying and
building and remediating. I think that has always been the draw to
systems operations things for me. Every time there is something to be
done (proactively or reactively) there's the excitement of solving the
puzzle, uncovering the clues, and ultimately winning the quest.

Suffice it to say, I'm *so* glad I stayed with infrastructure
engineering and cloud-native applications development instead of going
100% into security *professionally*. 

As I've noted before, what I'm doing now has zero documentation
requirements (well not zero) compared to what people being paid to hack
professional *mostly* have to do. I have yet to meet a *professional*
hacker who doesn't complain about writing reports. And I have met not a
few, um, *not* professional hackers who laugh at those who have to give
up all their skills learning time doing that, because they don't. The
only thing "recreational" hackers write down is stuff in their own black
books for reference later. Hell, they don't even share what they learn.
It's an ongoing competition, which, again, is why I'm no longer as
intrigued by the cybersecurity field at any point on the greyscale
spectrum. Maybe a little for fun, but too many other fun and creative
things to do (at the moment).
