# Twitch Mods are Power-Hungry Pricks

Just learned a really important lesson after subbing to jaystreazy
(whom I've followed off and on for a year). During an IRL TwitchCon
forum I typed four words of Russian when a question was asked about the
necessity of speaking a foreign language to be an IRL streamer abroad.
It was just a little fun. But I got immediately timed out for 10 minutes
because of it. Then, when I brought it up later I got timed out again.
Then, when during a live TwitchCon interview with someone who was overly
aggressively banned who didn't even request an unban Jay reached out to
the community to ask about unbanning him these same mods were shamed
when the community agreed and unbanned him. The guy could have cared
less about being unbanned, "your mods are shit" he basically said, right
after they unbanned him. And, during that moment, when I said, "these
moderators are a bit aggressive" I got timed out for a full fucking day,
during TwitchCon, after just newly subbing. 

I immediately canceled my sub to Jay, unfollowed, wrote a tweet about
it, and now this.

Jay, if you happen to read this, my man, I *love* your content, but your
mods are fucking out of control, power-hungry little dicks destroying
your community. You should really look into it. I wish you the best, but
I'm going to make sure everyone knows about this and how to avoid it.

P.S. I'm sure there are people out there who think I'm just trying to
"grow my stream by 'leeching' (or whatever)" and they just don't have a
fucking clue about me at all. I don't operate that way, and frankly, if
you have mods who are paranoid about such things while having honest
conversations about the current subject matter then your mods are (once
again) the problem. They create a disingenuous shit storm of bad vibes.

So yeah, I learned what I *never* want to have in my community. This is
why I've been so slow to add mods and remove follower-only chat and
such. I want a *curated* community of highly-responsible participants
who think about what they right, and mods who are exceptional from among
them. I've just experienced the polar opposite of that.
