# Decided I don't need a new bike, getting Wahoo KICKR Bike instead

As much as I *want* a new climbing bike, I really don't *need* one. So I'm going to wait for at least a year. In fact, the only reason at all to get a climbing bike would be to keep up with people in a group ride, but I don't *do* group rides. I generally hate them. Honestly, I really don't like road cyclists in general. My experience is that almost all of them are fucking assholes (or at least not the type of people I would ever want to hang out with, at all). I just made enemies of them all. Oh well.

I should probably warm up to doing group rides (even with people I despise) because they are definitely safer---especially when going out a distance away from civilization. If something goes wrong, the group is there for support even if I were to get knocked out somehow. As I age, I hate to say it, but I have to consider this kind of stuff.

Or, I just have to Zwift the entire time and forget the outdoor riding completely, at least, riding outdoors with people I don't like.

In fact, I've been loving Zwift so much that I'm now actively planning to get a Wahoo KICKR Bike instead and set it up with exactly the same specs as the Aethos or Emonda (which I actually ride right now in the virtual world). The KICKR bike is more than 4000 dollars cheaper than a carbon climbing bike and it optimized for virtual riding and racing. That way I would be *really* competitive in Zwift and could just keep the slow touring bike when outdoors. Bombing down hills is fun but probably not best for a guy my age (with a lot to lose). Hitting 100kph in Zwift is not the same but a lot safer. The touring bike keeps it real and safe and gives the option of going on long slow group tours with people eventually (much more fun than riding in a pack and not even looking at the scenery).
