# LOG20240820112230: Tuesday, August 20, 2024, 11:22:30AM EDT

New work computer arrived: Macbook M3 Pro, Nov 2023. It's fast, real fast. Some people will bitch about it being a Mac but I'm too old to care at this point. This is the best computer I've ever owned in terms of productivity, battery life, and aesthetics. Who cares if Apple is evil, what company isn't these days. The BSD OS is actually much better than Linux. Pure Linux bigots make me really laugh these days. They have no idea what they are talking about and are too blinded by false dogma to see when something is objectively better.

Once again I'm reminded what an amazing application and service RealVNC is. I regularly forget to do things from my home desktop PC and just login from my phone and take care of it in a few minutes. It's a must have for anyone wanting to do any IRL livestreaming through OBS running on a home system. In fact, I'm writing this from my work laptop remotely connected to my home desktop connected via ssh to my Linux VM running on it, yet another reason to learn to get good on the terminal.

I only need to carry one computer with me on the bike now. This new Mac with RealVNC is more than enough for everything I could ever want to do for work. In fact, I'll be setting up a multiple VM server tower as my main lab at home and just using RealVNC and ssh to connect into it. This means that all I ever need to have with me is this single computer with the most visible screen of any computer I've ever owned in all light conditions.
