# Working toward a full month on the road IRL streaming

Been gradually adding back daily IRL streaming so the stuff becomes second nature. Eventually, I want to get to the point where I can work on the road from coffee shops and Panera Breads and stream over their network there. I might even get a Starlink membership for the trip, but probably not. Most importantly, I have to have the ability to run my desktop streaming system completely remotely, to be able to use my laptop, or even my phone, to connect and control the local system there, including reboots. I've decided that none of the available tools are up to the task to do that and putting all that work into my Cozy Coworking Community tool, which I've decided will include a remote access configurable shell script integration allowing anyone with Twitch access as moderator permission to startup services remotely using nothing but the Twitch IRC interface (like NOALBS does, but in a more robust and expandable way). I'll even be able to reboot the machine if I needed, or startup an SSH tunnel to which I can gain command line access and graphical access using one of the better VPN solutions (home grown with openvpn of course).

The great thing about having Linux on the desktop where I stream again is that all the solutions I create will be runnable from the cloud without too much change if needed. But honestly, there's really no need to incur that expense since this is all the cloud I need.

* Combining Internet Connections: Bonding, Load Balancing & Auto Failover - Mobile Internet Resource Center  
  <https://www.rvmobileinternet.com/guides/bonding/>
