# Twitch Commands as Gamified Learning

The more I get into updating my Twitch Cloudbot commands the more I
realize that it is like creating a choose your own adventure with
hyperlinks between the different topics. People can pull one thing up
after another as if they were navigating the content on the web or in a
choose-your-own-adventure type thing. I'm thinking of just putting most
of my documentation into this format and then using it to actually
render a web site with hyperlinks for those who don't want to deal with
the chat spam. In fact, I'm planning on using this as a critical
supplement to any other Beginner Boost content I create. The 500
character limit is ideal for forcing me to create digestible chunks of
information that don't get overwhelming. The exclamation point with
keyword linking makes for an ultra-simple form of hyperlink syntax. In
fact, there's an architectural design principle here that needs to be
explored for the Knowledge Exchange Grid, perhaps a particular type of
knowledge node that allows for everything to be in a single YAML within
that knowledge node that is designed to be rendered as a single page
with exhaustive, relative hyperlinking instead of several documents
where the links would break. It would be almost trivial to take my
Twitch `commands.yaml` file and render a single hyper-linked web page,
or better yet, a markdown page that can itself be rendered as anything,
including a PDF with links or an HTML page.

    #twitch #edtech #yaml #writing
