# Avoid Unnecessary Illustrations and Fluff

Lately I've been tempted (again) to make a wonderful diagram about
everything in the Beginner Boost. I used to have these amazing charts
and diagrams that I made and printed at poster size on the walls. People
responded to it. They love the chart-like nature of it. It's like a flow
chart to their learning. But I'm also reminded how much work it is to
keep such a resource in sync with an outline of the content required.

By the way, this was the fundamental problem with UML that tanked it
completely. Keeping the diagram of the data model in sync with the
*actual* data model was nearly impossible and never consistently
implemented. So people *hate* UML now. I was one of the ones who fully
drank the Koolaide and now despise it. 

It was my background in drafting that brought me to love UML and
diagramming in general. Diagrams are things that you can pour over as
you stand in front of them in poster form on the wall just contemplating
all the possibilities. That's why skills trees are so popular in gaming.
People love to perceive the idea that they control their destiny.

This dilemma follows for everything else that qualifies as extra
illustrations and fluff. Hell, even writing about it when you can just
explain it quickly or demonstrate it is a pain in the ass. This is
exactly why Socrates *never* wrote anything down. Direct communication
is always best for that type of exchange. Reading is great for diving
into the concepts, but after reading a few pages most people are so
antsy to try something that it is best to put the book aside, write a
little learning plan for that, and then explore and experiment with it
(the RWX method). 

One reason I believe this 2021 Boost has been so successful is because
of how little preparation and stuff there is to keep synchronized. If I
spent gobs of time preparing illustrations, or even rendering the
content as a web page, I just wouldn't do it and when I did it would be
more rigid locking me into a curriculum cave that I'd be forced to stay
in. The loose approach of the Boost (and SkilStak) method allow for
maximum adaptation and learning, for *me* to fail along with everyone
else, for us all to learn together as a community, to share the
exploration, the most enjoyable part of learning. Having a bunch of
extra stuff would make this impossible and kill that vibe. It is far
more important to be consistent and consumable than to add illustrations
and fluff. The feedback from the Boost has rather objectively
demonstrated that this way just works. It's really too bad more who
would help others learn don't take this approach. More people would
learn and enjoy it.

Perhaps after one full Boost completes I could spend time on that.
Perhaps not. Perhaps that is time better spend making more loosey-goosey
content that will encourage people to participate instead of stand in
front of it dreaming of the possibilities.
