# We won our counter-suit, but took the high ground and dismissed

"Are you sure!?" said the judge with that wonderful NC accent. He sounded surprised that I didn't want summary judgement awarding me 75 thousand dollars owed to us because Alicia (my ex) sought to defraud me and the government by not declaring those payments I made to her as "alimony" even though the definition of alimony is *any* money paid for spousal support no matter what it is called. The IRS law says that the *only* exception is that the contract must specifically state that such support is *not* considered alimony. I'll be forever grateful to Doris (my wife) for figuring this out.

I was an idiot for not catching it earlier. After SKILSTAK ended (mostly because of Covid) I didn't have the money to pay and had to stop my 1950 dollars a month payments to her (even though she had remarried a couple years ago at the time). I was also paying excessive amounts of taxes because I could not report those payments as alimony, even though I should have been all along. Plus she lied about claiming the children as dependents and claimed them even though she said I should. I felt so bad not being able to pay. That is, until an IRS agent speaking with my wife said, "That's alimony, it doesn't matter what you call it. You should have a judge make a ruling for you." And, that is *exactly* what we did. Now we know that we were right all along.

Alicia is the purest of Christian, hypocritical evil. She has no problem lying about her employment, at one point even selling counterfeit products purchased from China in America. She is one of those humans who always sees everyone else as wrong, and herself being entitled to bend the rules any way she sees fit, so long as she doesn't get caught. Like the time they forgot to charge us for our Indian food dinner on a date and she said, "Hey, look, free meal!" I insisted we turn around and tell them they had forgotten to charge us. That was almost a decade before our divorce.

Doris did all the sleuthing and research. She has law-enforcement and detective training and was not going to stand by and take this when Alicia sued us over simply stopping payments of her stolen money. Not only did Alicia seek to defraud the government, but she and her lawyer lied to me when asked to amend the contract after they moved not disclosing that they had made a minor but important change to the contract saying I would pay for the mortgage payments for the house "where the wife resides" instead of the "wife and minor children." She also further lied telling me I could take the kids as dependents on taxes and she claimed them anyway. She even lied about me taking the kids to my wedding and took them out of school two days before the wedding so that me and my family couldn't see them and they couldn't come to the wedding. Even through, I have it *in writing* that she would allow them to come. We are talking about a woman that has completely written off her "gay son" who would not even let him in the house with his husband. This woman is pure *fucking* evil and I could not be happier that my sons and I have escaped her. And, guess what, they feel the same (they just make absolutely sure never to tell her that, they are still terrified of her deep down *because* she's such a monster who only loves if people meet her conditions).

Alicia's deliberate omission about the contract change was an attempt to trick me into continuing to pay her forever even through she had been happily remarried and travelling around the world on expensive trips for two years while I continued to pay and suffer, but not just me, my wife and step-son as well. Alicia didn't give a shit. Plus, she didn't have to even report that money as income, another reason she thought not putting "alimony" on it would keep her with more undeserved money. Seriously, what the *fuck* was I thinking staying married to this diseased level 24 Karen monster as long as I did! She even once said to me in person before counseling "You hate me don't you?" I said no. She *knew* how evil she was being. When the cops showed up on my doorstep "for my protection" because this psychotic Karen had gone missing, well, you get the idea. In so many ways, I pity her, unable to disconnect from the raw evil inside. But I don't want to be anywhere near that shit (and neither to my sons, when they are honest and not terrified for their lives).

We hand delivered our response and the counter-suit within the legal time limit. But it sat for three years. Alicia and her lawyer just ignored it. This would have granted us summary-judgement win if we had pushed for it. But we didn't. Just like the time when she and her lawyer forgot to include splitting my retirement money during the divorce and *I volunteered* the reminder that they had forgotten to include it, I took the high road, asking for a motion to dismiss instead.

I was surprised the judge informed me that her lawyer had dismissed the original suit within 24 hours of receiving the "calendar cleanup" notification from the court. He likely didn't even call Alicia to ask. And I'm quite sure Alicia never even told him she had been remarried. Of course, we'll never know, but knowing how Alicia works to manipulate and use everyone around her, I'm quite sure that is what happened. Her lawyer was so shocked and scared when Doris handed him the response and counter-suit in person. His faced washed when he said, "You know, you didn't have to deliver this in person." That was a great day, surpassed only by Monday, April 24th, 2023, when the judge was so convinced we were right that he looked at me somewhat puzzled while explaining how I wanted "to just move on" and asked, glancing over his reading glasses, "Are you sure?!" The few people in the court room also looked a bit surprised. I wonder if the judge actually wanted justice, to hold Alicia and her *shitty* lawyer accountable. (He has a *horrible* public reputation.)

I'll guess I'll never know, but I don't *need* to know. We won. We were right. Doris and I are the good guys in this story and the judge himself confirmed it. I'm not going to punish Alicia's unfortunate current husband (who makes all the money) for making the same mistake I did, marrying an evil, lying, psychotic, manipulative gorgon. After all, he got tricked just like me. I mean, come on, Alicia was an *advertising* major in college whom her entire family called "princess" because she was so spoiled and superior. How the fuck didn't I see this coming! Somehow I felt like I could handle it. God help him.

