# Linux at Work? Windows or Mac, That's All You Get

I'm really surprised I didn't realize this a lot earlier. Maybe I just
didn't care and wanted it to not be true. In fact, I know that is what
it is, because while at IBM I used Linux as my main system for over 13
years. At first I was a part of the rebel elite, then we became
supported and official within the company. But times have changed.

**There is absolutely zero reason today to allow employees to use anything
but Windows or Mac systems on their company computers.**

I can't believe I'm writing those words, but they have never been more
true than 2022 when everything is virtualized and containered, but more
importantly, when the entire world is facing an IT crisis of epidemic
proportions. Sure desktop Linux is more secure than Windows, but which
one? 

Think carefully about that last question. As an individual you might
find it limiting to not be able to put whatever the fuck you want on
your computer, but so long as zero-trust is not implemented in your
organization someone has to answer for the 10s of thousands of security
vulnerabilities that connect to the "private" network every single day.

You can grumble all you want about being forced to use Windows or Mac at
work (God knows I have). But it is the *right* decision when dealing
with incredibly large organizations where the average computer user is
an absolute moron in terms of technical skills and (to borrow the words
of marble_wraith) "Linux is an incredibly powerful footgun." The tech
rockstars will do everything in their power to thwart your security
measures (like convert their "laptop" into a router so they can use
whatever the fuck they want to connect to your network, a fire-able
offense in any organization, and yes I did it once upon a time).

Here's another unpopular opinion: "spy" software on your work computer
is a good idea. Just look at the stats about where major security
breeches are happening. It's not your computer, it's theirs and they
have to protect their organizations. Or would you prefer more ransomware
attacks taking out entire hospitals during a pandemic, because that is
the alternative. It's not FUD to report the reality of cybersecurity in
the year 2022.

I'm going to catch shit for using Windows for the foreseeable future
from naive people without jobs or those who have never worked in any
significant enterprise that doesn't focus on technology (IBM, for
example, doesn't count). But I am exercising my personal choice to
prepare people for the lowest common denominator, to be wicked
successful and productive on Windows and Mac. Then, if they can put
Linux on their desktops (despite there being zero reason to actually do
so) they can use that as well. I want to help people be amazing even in
the most conservative environments (even government employees) and
thrive while doing so by leveraging the full power of Linux and FOSS in
ways that work with Windows and Mac. 

And before throwing shit at me for Windows as my daily driver, might
want to ask the world's most elite hacker training organization why they
*require* it. There's a solid reason the most elite cybersecurity
certification in the world (OCEE) *requires* Windows 10 and a powerful
laptop that can run VMware Workstation, which is exactly what I
recommend for the Boost and everyone else who wants to get into
cloud-native infrastructure engineering and hacking.

Here's the thing, if you don't like it, go find a company that let's you
use a broke-ass, forever-configuring-instead-of-working Linux Desktop.
Have fun wasting time fucking around with irrelevant things while the
rest of us focus on stuff that matters, like playing Overwatch. ;)
