# Learning Front-End First is a Huge Mistake

I learned BASIC on an Atari 400 and loved it. It was as "back-end" as
you could get for a 12-year-old. I obsessed over computers and
programming, and hacking past floppy disk game security, and playing
text adventures like Zork for most of the years from 12-14. I am *so*
glad I had that experience to start with.

Later, when I returned to computers and coding (in college) I was still
doing "back end" things creating applications for foreign language
instruction. Eventually, I learned everything about the Web I could.
But, as soon as I discovered HTML forms all I wanted to do was learn
Perl and code stuff to process whatever I wanted to send to the "back
end".

All of that "back end" experience made me a kick-ass developer from a
very young age.

Contrast that with all the hundreds of people who have been through
SKILSTAK since 2013. Those who learned "front end development" sucked
the most of all. They never really reached the stratosphere that others
who preferred the "back end" (or even "deep end") did.

And yet I'm watching yet another Twitch "Emeritus" instructor
demonstrating what a "client" and "server" are for the first fucking
time in his entire series. Way after filling people's heads with shit
about "front end". It's entirely ass backwards and I taught it much the
same way thinking I was helping people because "JavaScript is so
enabling and empowering." It's absolute horse shit and I see that very
plainly now. I hate how full of confidence this person is even though he
is driving all 230 people watching into a fucking wall. That's the thing
about web developers. The are so full of false hubris they don't see
what myopic, one-trick-ponies they have become.

Meanwhile, the world and industry is *screaming* for actual well-rounded
developers and IT professionals. Not yet another "web dev" who may have
coded some Python once upon a time.

Technologists who will *truly* excel above all others --- even if they
decide to do "front end" development --- *always* master the computer
itself before doing anything with "client and server" and that means
learning everything *but* web development until the very end. The best
first language you should learn is POSIX shell. And the next should be
C. And the next Go. These languages completely dwarf any of the Web
languages in *overall* applicability. God knows JavaScript is one of the
worst languages on planet Earth, and yet so many think the entire world
should run on nothing else, even a fucking documentation web site
requires JavaScript these days. All because assholes who teach
"bootcamps" keep fucking up everyone that thinks they are learning
something of value.
