# ZettelMark: Links and References List

While encouraging the reader to use a browser that will allow searching
of *any* word that appears in a zettel, sometimes it remains a good idea
to provide a direct link to a specific zettel. However, normal HTML
hyperlinking is not conducive to a paper-compatible zettelkasten method
since hyperlinks mask the URL and therefore the ID itself. Conversion to
text for descriptions (such as on YouTube) therefore does not include
any reference at all to the source. Inline hyperlinking also distracts
the reader scanning the source text. 

ZettelMark, therefore, requires that all links be explicit, that they be
visible in any rendered form of the zettel. For internal zettel links
the zettel ID is enough. For all other types of links, a full URL
wrapped in angle brackets is required.

In addition, bibliographical and other written references should also be
included in any such list.

To preserve compatibility with all languages there is no particular
heading or text required to identify the links and references list, it
must simply be the last list block of the ZettelMark file. Here's an
example:

```markdown
* [20210813150318](/20210813150318/) ZettelMark Text Editor Helpers
* [20210812154738](/20210812154738/) ZettelMark is EzMark with Semantic Additions
```

As you can see, the list source is messy compared to the rest of the
ZettelMark. This is why all links must come at the end of the file. We
don't want anything getting in the way of the writing and reading
experience when creating and updating a zettel. 

* [20210813150318](/20210813150318/) ZettelMark Text Editor Helpers
* [20210812154738](/20210812154738/) ZettelMark is EzMark with Semantic Additions
