# Merit Badges Fail to Provide Depth and Repetition

Lack of depth and repetition are both significant flaws in the Scouting
merit badge system.

Even though it is explicitly stated as one of the goals of the Scouting
merit badge program, it is still worth noting that no merit badge covers
any skill or topic in any significant way beyond just an introduction.
While you *might* safe a person's life after getting the Lifesaving
merit badge, it is far more likely you would only vaguely remember they
skill you once learned all those years ago.

Once a person gets a merit badge that person never has to repeat any of
the learning or skills in any significant way. Sure, you have to be able
to answer and demonstrate at any "board of review" for any rank along
the way, but everyone knows that requirement is rarely acted upon by the
people doing the review and I've never known *anyone* to fail their
"board of review" for not being able to reproduce a skill or answer from
any merit badge they received, even for a specific rank. In theory, the
review should work, but doesn't because once a scout has a merit badge
they almost *never* go back and work on anything from it. They already
earned it. They got that fancy badge and, honestly, that's the primary
motivation. Few scouts (or people in general) really care about
something presented in a challenge/badge/gamified way after they earn
it. It's just human nature. Hell, we'll even cheat when we know we are
the only ones seeing the badges. We are all weird that way.

Overcoming these flaws is tough, but doable. Adding levels addresses
both the depth and repetition problems. In other gamified systems
involving badges we see levels for badges that offer further motivation
to learn more, to dive deeper, to revisit the learning previously and
build upon it. Scouts were inhibited by the physical nature of merit
badges. You couldn't sew on a level into every badge. There are "palms"
you can get for your Eagle to level up even a once achieved rank. These
are just levels effectively. Modern takes on the original Scout merit
badge program should, therefore, be sure to add levels to any gamified
badge or achievements system.

    #pedagogy #learning #scouting #gamified
