# Feeling Like Going Back to Linux Mint Lately

The recent PopOS fails are pretty dramatic. The monumental fail that
caused Linus to delete his entire Gnome desktop while installing Steam
is one such example. Their fix, among other things, was to hack `apt`
to change its behavior so that it doesn't even give people the option to
remove "essential" things. That act alone (without the fail that
precipitated it) demonstrates a very troubling
we-know-better-than-the-debian-team mindset on the part of the PopOS
designers that I simply do not want to encourage any longer.

PopOS also had some funky stupid problem with the nVidia driver that
caused my desktop to blacken preventing access to any applications. I
thought it was in my settings. It was not. But I had to recreate my home
directory every single time. I don't feel like having that risk any
longer.

The latest PopOS also made a bunch of really fucking stupid decisions
about the desktop workspaces. You can no longer just tap Super and get
the zoom-out effect *with* the search bar to type in the commands. You
get either, or. And if you choose anything else besides workspaces for
Super you can never reveal your toolbar if you have any applications in
full screen mode (and I usually have terminal full screened). In short,
the people making these idiotic design changes clearly don't use the
thing that they are changing. They are breaking what made PopOS great.

So I've decided after I have my lab/studio reset I will be booting PopOS
and replacing it with my beloved Linux Mint Cinnamon (which has never
done me wrong, ever).

Related:

* [20211117135853](/20211117135853/) Installing Steam Deleted PopOS for Linus

Tags:

    #linux #distros #mint #rant
