# Gamified GitHub

I randomly read about ChoreWars the other day on Twitter and told Doris
about it. She loved the idea of giving XP for chores and having some
great art in front of otherwise boring chores. The post on Twitter was
about a person on NextDoor who asked for "side quests" in the
neighborhood, which had a hilarious thread of Witcher-like quests for
mundane stuff in the neighborhood. Someone called it "Karen-Wars". But
the idea stuck.

Today, as she asked me to add some things I started thinking about
adding FOSS projects to it. 

And then my head exploded.

What if we re-imagined GitHub itself as an RPG game. God knows it has
the API for doing it all. Issues become worked as different kinds of
quests. Bugs are killer monsters that have wandered into town.
Enhancements are improvements. The direct parallels are astounding.

But it gets better.

What if we introduced such a thing through GitHub Education to those in
the school system?

Rather than bore them with the details of setting up Git and GitHub and
all the command stuff (at first) we introduce this game as a way to
train them into thinking of FOSS development as a kind of
find-the-quest-and-win-it challenge-based learning. 

There have been a number of attempts at gamifying education and coding,
but none the *directly* build on the GitHub API. 

Another side-effect of this would be that even adults could have fun
with it. They would have the choice of the traditional GitHub Web or
command line `gh` API interfaces, or the dripping with RPG beautiful art
gamified interface. 

I so want to make this. We could leverage all the Twitch game developers
to help make it. But I'm thinking it would be better as a web overlay
and native mobile app that adds in mostly the XP system with stuff to
buy and shit.
