# Good Riddance Stack Overflow, BuBye

Stack Overflow has always been a shit service clogging up the search
results and providing shit answers that confuse the hell out of
beginners and annoy veterans. Sure I've gotten tons of quick answers
from it, but only because it is *always* the first or second hit for
questions. One of the main reasons the Knowledge Exchange Grid (KEG) is
needed is because of Stack Overflow's dominance in results. I want
control over the search results algorithm. We all want that. But good
luck *ever* getting that from any of them. Today you have to have the
"unbiased" DDG or the mysterious SRE algorithm of Google. But
corporations should *not* be setting our search criteria for us. Perhaps
now the world will see what a bad fucking idea it has been to let the
mob upvote the truth. Now --- please God in Heaven --- [Prosus] is going
to put up a paywall blocking all those hits. One can only hope.

[Prosus]: <https://www.thetechee.com/2020/12/similarweb-aiming-for-2021-ipo-report.html>

This is a good thing because it is yet another wake up call, like when
Medium bait and switched millions as well to put up blogs there and
they did a "psyche!" and forced everyone using the service to have an
account to read anything. People have to realize that companies are
*always* going to act in the stockholders best interest, that the people
providing the content are the product, not the customer.

The same is true of GitHub. I only pray that we can come up with an open
alternative before Microsoft decides to put a pay wall up in front of
all the world's software. I serious doubt they would be that stupid ---
especially given all the competition and how easy it is to host Git
content, and all the open source possibilities already. But for now,
there is no better place to put all your notes, you know, the answers
that you are so happy you never invested time to get onto Stack
Overflow, 'cuz bubye content. I've never been more pleased with my
decision to host all my content very simply and searchably on GitHub,
but this does make me uneasy about giving in and depending on a service
for searchability. The KEG still needs to be built. Just have to make
time for it.
