# Back to the Beginning

I'm returning to the best part of my single life after divorcing and
marrying Doris. I deeply love here and don't regret any decision. But I
have to just own up to the fact that a lot of changes to my life,
health, and happiness happened after getting married. Here's a summary
I'll share in the hopes of helping some other unsuspecting person out
there going through the same thing:

*I don't have my own refrigerator.* This might seem like a small thing
but my entire diet and health have been a major casualty to this one
change. Doris and Otto are foodies and love stuffing the fridge and
freezer to maximum capacity and rearranging the food in it about every
two weeks. Every time I lose my shit because my food routing is
completely blown to hell. I don't have any control over what I eat
because I can't fucking find anything. When I had my own fridge I knew
the exact location of every item and could create a smoothy in under
five minutes because of the muscle memory. **Solution: buy my own fucking
fridge and find someplace in our shitting apartment kitchen for it.**

*I don't eat on the same schedule as everyone else.* Every time I try to
be a good family member and wait for meals I get fucked. Doris schedule
is all over the place, plus I don't even really want to eat the amazing
meals she makes. They are so amazing, and so fucking bad for me. They
are usually full of carbs and meat and food I cannot digest. She tries
so hard to balance our meals and guilty when I get sick. But it isn't
her fault. I'm the only one who can control all those variables.
**Solution: Prepare my own meals and eat on my own schedule.**

*The food I need/want is never in the house.* Depending on another to
purchase the food you need, when you need it is a disaster waiting to
happen. Whether it is water, coffee, bananas, or beer, expecting another
family member to know everything to you need and be responsible for
getting it to you in the right time frame and putting it someplace you
can find it is just plain unrealistic. This never works. The answer is
to do what I did when we were first married. **Solution: Do your own
shopping and manage your own food storage area.**

*Eating meat fucks up my system (and the world's).* The best physical
shape I have ever been in, that photo of me on my Twitch "About" page
was when I was vegan. I can't explain all the reasons why, and I don't
care. For me there is overwhelming objective evidence that when I
followed a vegan diet I was the healthiest I have ever been. I did eat
eggs and I went so far as to no longer purchase products that promoted
exploitation of animals beyond the natural balance that other humans
have had with the natural world. I'm not particularly interested in the
implications and perceptions of others. It works for me and I don't have
to be a dick about it. My best guess about my health is that my
digestive system is aging and been really traumatized by years of
triathlete diet experimentation. Digesting any meat is really hard on my
system. For some reason, I don't have the same problem with sushi fish.
**Solution: Go vegan-ish again, stop eating meat except eggs and sushi.**

*My digestive system is fucked.* All of my digestive track seems fucked
up in some way. I don't get nutrients from food the way I should. I
don't know all the reasons and I don't give a fuck. I do know, that I
accidentally discovered the solution when I bought a Blendtec blender
all those years ago. My diet became 90% liquid. In fact, I had the
opposite problem, I would lose so much weight that I had to figure out
how to bring back some solid carbs without disrupting my system (sweet
potatoes, brown rice, btw, brown rice is the answer for ultra-marathon
paddle boarders who are diabetic to control their blood sugar).
**Solution: Go back to mostly liquid diet, for a while.**

*I'm still too stressed out.* As much as I try, I have a very
high-stress level in my life, day to day, I'm failing miserably. Life
has gotten much less stressful since going back to corporate and not
worrying about money anymore, but other things sneak in to ruin my zen,
usually of my own making. Ironically, coding stresses me out. Maybe
because I get so intense into it. Gaming definitely stresses me out,
even though even Dota2 can sometimes relax me. Music --- especially
playing it myself --- is a huge calming factor. So is doing yoga
regularly. Yoga is not just for "soy boys" (even though I am one and
proud). It's transformative when done right. It's meditation with a
physical component that makes you sweat. Running a moderate paces to a
consistent cadence does the same thing, for me. Just thinking about
those already calms me as I'm writing this. **Solution: Return to daily
running for 15-20 minutes and 20-40 yoga practice, running when I wake,
then voiding, then yoga at home upon return.**

*All my shit is all over the place.* Living in this apartment
"temporarily" has been one of the biggest challenges of my life. I have
no room at all, have mold growing all around, have a dog that loves to
rub her body all over my carpet (I'm allergic) and, until very recently,
I didn't even have a car or bike so I was literally a prisoner of this
fucking apartment. I have stuff everywhere that I need to organize, but
that was always going to be organized once we moved into a *house* and
now that a house is no longer in the five-year plan I have to starting
getting rid of a lot of stuff, including stuff that is useful but not
worth keeping around. Plus, I have to prepare for possibility of being
forced to live in a New York apartment with most everything I own in a
storage unit someplace outside of town. **Solution: Get rid of
everything that I have not used without the last year, no exceptions.**

*I've been eating wheat.* I gave up wheat in any form for three years
and saw amazing results. I don't know if it was latent allergies to
gluten or the Monsanto-altered grain, or just the reduction in carbs.
But it was a huge factor. As Barry Sears says, "treat anything passing
through your mouth as medication, because it is." This was a major
factor is really cutting to 3% body fat. **Solution: Stop eating
anything with wheat.**

*I'm eating too many carbs.* Wheat or no wheat, I'm eating a lot more
empty carbs that I use to. I don't mind carbs, but they are best when
they come from nutrient-rich foods instead. **Solution: Stop eating
complex and empty carbs, no more bread, pasta, or potatoes in any form.**

*I've been drinking "lactose free" milk.* I'm convinced "lactose free"
just means they add more sugar to the thing. I went totally non-dairy
before and it did wonders. If you think about it, ancient humans didn't
have much dairy at all, if they did it was a specialty. It certainly
wasn't a part of their regular diet. **Solution: No more dairy or dairy
by products.**

*I don't eat nearly as many fruits and veggies.* When I was single and
would go shopping the only department I would even go to was the produce
section. Okay, the frozen section sometimes, but still for frozen
produce. I memorized the produce section in every grocery store for
miles and could tell you the lowest prices on Roma tomatoes anywhere.
These days, I don't even do my own shopping and when I do I don't often
go to the produce section as much. The hard thing with buying produce is
that it goes bad if you don't eat it. You have to make sure to get the
stuff frequently and specifically what you need. This means doing my own
shopping to be sure of that, which I can do not that I (finally) have my
own car (even though technically every car has been "my" car).
**Solution: Shop primarily in the produce sections and do my own
shopping.**

*I've been drinking more alcohol consistently.* Alcohol isn't bad, it's
too much of it and in what form. **Solution: Limit Alcohol per week to
equivalent of three Sapporo. Find options without sugar or wheat.**

*Not eating when I'm hungry.* I decided when I was single that I would
listen to my gut, how bloated, how inflamed, how hungry, and I would
baby it by eating *good* food even at the slightest pain of hunger. It
worked, for me. But that meant I was drinking 4-5 light smoothies a day.
It does take time to do that and it is a pain in the ass if the food is
hard to get out of the fridge every time, but it really, really worked.
**Solution: Eat small meals/smoothies when hungry.**

*Not eating one guac meal per day.* I used to make guac and chips my
lunch every single day. Avocados provide a solid meal that lasts because
of the good fat content. I believe this kept my other cravings at bay
because of it. I always make sure to add the lime, and tomato, and
cilantro, and green onion and I believe the nutrients in them made it
even better. I would pile up as much on a single chip as possible, and
near the end started eating it with Romaine lettuce to replace the
chips. **Solution: Add back one guac meal per day.**
