# Snagged keg.pub, Cannot Wait to Build KEG

People might think my interest in KEG has waned by the amount of
attention I'm not able to put into it lately, but after getting a tip
from a Twitch community member that keg.pub was available I'm reminded
how much I really want to get to working on that eventually. The Boost
is starting up in 36 days that the will really tank most of my work on
the weekends for any other development, but I've got to find a way to
work on it. All the stuff I'm doing is leading up to it slowly but
surely: `bonzai`, `pegn`, `zet`, and all the bonzai branches ---
especially the `yq` and `y2j` stuff. The Boost is going to push me to
get that content polished better and that will require creating either a
`zet` or `keg` static site generator. I'm already way over what is
viewable on GitHub using that method. But at least I still have
someplace to put everything. I've been spending a lot of time on Bonzai
lately, but now that I think about it, it is *really* in the critical
path to doing anything else. Everything depends on it. And these days,
Bonzai depends on PEGN and scan.X so that I can complete BonzaiMark and
have a fucking solid standard for writing all Bonzai command
documentation. I cannot fuck that up. Potentially, millions will one day
be using it to document their Bonzai composable commands. So I suppose
it is all worth the investment in time. If only I get on someone's
payroll who just wants to pay me to do all this FOSS stuff. I haven't
really looked. But my current job is fine for now. It pays the bills. If
things keep going the way they are, I'll be able to dedicate a full
workday or two a week to those stuff and make an official reduction in
time through TEK. But I can't do that yet.

