# Vim is a Text Editor. Emacs and VSCode are IDEs

I was tempted to look at additional completion options (for ten minutes
today) because I do like a good tab complete on pretty much all the
things, so why not editing. But I was quickly reminded that Vim is a
text editor, not an Individual Development Environment (IDE). If you
want that, you want Emacs or VSCode. In fact, that is my best
distinction between them from now one. "Emacs is an IDE. Vi is a text
editor." 

Some people like to use typewriters to write novels. Some like word
processors. Some write them by hand. They really are tools that work in
conjunction with other tools to produce equivalent levels of efficiency
for different working styles. Vim and Emacs and VSCode are sort of the
same thing. Vim + solid bash scripting skills makes up for it not being
an IDE. All the IDE sugar is contained modularly in filter scripts (not
even plugins).

For me, just having a fast text editor that works everywhere has always
been my priority. If I *really* need an IDE I tend to like things like
VSCode and Goland for that, but I normally do not need such things. Am I
slower than other full-time developers? Yes. Most definitely. But I'm
much faster than them at everything else that involves the terminal,
systems administration, and research, that's right, research. 

Lightning fast, on-demand research will *always* be better than shit
like "Intellisense." I can find answers from a new TMUX window and lynx
terminal browser query in literally seconds and pull up all the examples
and dialog that accompany a particular topic as well. This is far more
useful than some annoying prompt for how something is named. When (and
if) I need that I am trying to start using `Ctrl-xo` from Vim insert mode.

I've been reminded as well (from [\@qmacro](https://twitch.tv/qmacro) on Twitch) that Intellisense
can actually work against beginners because all that completion prevents
them from learning it. I have noticed that when I use shortcuts a lot I
start to forget how to actually do the thing. (This happens to people
who wrap up `git` commands in scripts and aliases as well.)
