# People Expect What They Want

"I was only here for the music."

"I left when you started playing music."

"80s music, lol."

"Clearly, you are making lots of mistakes."

"You use `vim`. Lul."

"What you need to do is make a full video series on Kubernetes."

"No cam. Fail."

"-1 followers only chat."

"Where were you? We thought you died."

"I thought this was Science & Tech, not Dota."

I've been live streaming and posting hundreds, if not thousands, of
hours of written and video content for absolutely no cost (to them) but
at *extreme* cost (to me). People who know training have even said, "I
hope everyone appreciates this. A course like this is worth more than
\$1000 in the training world." I'll never forget that comment during in
my 2020 boost.

Some choose to sponsor me and subscribe and I really appreciate it. But
let me be clear: 

***I don't owe anyone A FUCKING THING!***

This is my stream, my code, my community. I do what I want. I say what
I want.  Fuck around with my time as I want. I just so happen to be
streaming it. If that turns out to be valuable fine. If not, get the
fuck out, no seriously, never come back. Get your piece of shit entitled
ass as far away from anything in my stream that could empower you to
further spread your shitty attitude in more ways destroying more of the
world in the process, you moronic, ungrateful fuck.

The sad thing is. I actually care when people say that shit. I try hard
to be accommodating, too hard, to a fault. I want people to stay and
learn. But even I have limits. I don't give a shit if it hurts their
entitled asshole feelings. It reveals instantly everything I need to
know about a person. I can't type the `/ban` command fast enough to
cancel their asses. 

Entitlement is a disease. People complain about being cramped and not
having the proper selection on the menu while flying at 10,000 feet in
the air. We all do it. We forget to be grateful for what we *do* have.

If anything, this has reminded me to look at my own possible attitude of
entitlement and make sure to check it at the door, or just eliminate it
if I can.

    #rants #entitlement #assholes #streaming #youtube
