## Monday, September 16, 2024, 10:10:10AM EDT

Decided to pick up Bonzai coding work again after mongrar asked for it. Bonzai markdown embedded documentation support absolutely fucking destroys all the other options and anyone with eyes can immediately see that. If I only supported it for that reason alone it would be worth it, that and 100% importable, composable command tree structures. I absolutely hate the CLI stuff in the tools I'm forced to maintain in Cobra at work. Cobra really is absolute dog shit. After reading through the complete raping of Cobra by the GitHub CLI tool team who created their own command "factory" and threw out all of Cobra you have to wonder why continue to promote a fucking brain-dead design that forces all that *at run time* when it easily could have been resolved when the fucking commands were compiled. I swear, I cannot believe how STUPID people are who think that is a good approach. Stupid often wins in our world, I've learned.

Apparently many have been using Bonzai a lot (as have others apparently) and my waning interest in maintaining it because of Cobra's dominance (albeit decidedly inferior to Bonzai). The fact of the matter is the world can have both. For those who insist on absolutely fucking brain-dead command-line signatures that pot marked with `-foo` and `--whatever-the-fuck` that's find. Bonzai is for the elite CLI connoisseurs who understand what HCI even stands for and care enough to do something about it. Ironically, many of the core new Linux commands are being created as monoliths that do not have dashed options at all.

The next thing I'll add will be full support for completion in every known interactive shell that people use, including using any Bonzai command as its own interactive shell if there isn't one available. 

